financial statements as at the Balance Sheet date. DISCUSSION ON FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE WITH
RESPECT TO OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE
OVERVIEW
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
Ind AS as per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended and notified under Section of the Companies
Act, (the 'Act') and other relevant provisions of the Act.
The Group's consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
compliance with Ind AS on Consolidation of Accounts and
presented in a separate section. BORROWINGS
(Rs. in crores) F23 F22 Inc./(Dec.) Long-term borrowings , , (,) Short-term borrowings , , Borrowings Unclaimed matured deposits
Total . . (.) , , (,) Borrowings have decreased from Rs. , crores in the previous
year to Rs. , crores in the current year mainly due to
repayments in the current year. INVENTORIES FINANCIAL INFORMATION
[STANDALONE]
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
As at 31st March, , the Property, Plant and Equipment and
Intangible Assets stood at Rs. , crores as compared to Rs.
, crores as at 31st March, . During the year, the Company
incurred capital expenditure of Rs. , crores (previous year Rs.
, crores). The major items of capital expenditure were on new
product development and capacity enhancement. During the year, the
Company has taken impairment of certain assets of trucks and buses
business and certain asset transfers to a subsidiary company. Raw materials and bought out components
as a % of cost of materials consumed
Finished goods and stock-in-trade as a %
of sales of products F23 F22 .% .% .% .% Raw materials and bought out components as a percentage of cost
of materials consumed has increased mainly on account of build up
for BS6. transition from 1st April, and also stocking of some of
the critical components due to supply constraints. However, finished
goods and stock-in-trade as a percentage of sales of products have
decreased mainly on account of focus on inventory management and
higher sales traction of new products. TRADE RECEIVABLE
Trade Receivables are Rs. , crores as at 31st March, , as compared to Rs. , crores as at 31st March, . As a percentage of revenue
from sales of products and services, trade receivables are lower at .% as at 31st March, , as compared to .% for the previous year mainly
on account of higher volume. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
INCOME
Particulars (Rs. in crores) F23 F22 Amount % to Revenue
from Operations Sales of products , Increase Amount % to Revenue
from Operations % . , . . Sale of services , . , . . Other operating revenue , . , . . Revenue from operations , . , . . , . , . . Other income REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS & OTHER INCOME
Sales volume in Auto segment witnessed an increase of % clocking ,, vehicles in the current year from ,, vehicles in the
previous year. Increase in volumes combined with higher realisation led to Revenue from operations growing by .% as compared to the
previous year.
Other income during the year ended 31st March, at Rs. , crores is higher than Rs. , crores earned in the previous year mainly on
account of higher dividend income in the current year as compared to previous year.
(Rs. in crores) Particulars F23 Increase F22 Amount % to Revenue
from Operations Amount % to Revenue
from Operations % Material costs , . , . . Employee beneﬁts expense , . , . . . . . Depreciation, amortisation and
impairment expense , . , . . Other expenses , . , . . Total expenses , . , . . Finance costs EXPENDITURE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS The total expenditure during the year as a percentage of revenue is
.% as compared to .% in the previous year. The reduction is a
reflection of the cost management initiative undertaken by the
Company. Exceptional items in the current and previous year comprises of
profit earned on sale of certain long-term investments partly offset
by impairment of certain investments in subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures and certain long-term assets. MATERIAL COST TAX EXPENSE The material cost as a percentage of revenue has increased from
.% in the previous year to % in the current year mainly on
account of elevated levels of inputs costs and supply side challenges
witnessed during F23. The provision for current tax and deferred tax for the year ended 31st
March, , as a percentage to prof it before tax (before
exceptional items) is lower than the previous year mainly on account
of higher dividend income in FY - as compared to FY -
and deferred tax created on capital losses. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
The personnel cost as a percentage of revenue from operations has
decreased from .% in the previous year to .% in the current
year mainly due to the higher revenue base in the current year. OTHER EXPENSES The key financial ratios of the Company are given as below:
M&M Particulars
Debtors Turnover (times) F23 F22 . . Inventory Turnover (times) . . Interest Coverage Ratio (times) . . Current Ratio (times) . . Debt Equity Ratio (times) . . Operating Proﬁt Margin (%) . . Other expenses as a percentage of revenue from operations have
decreased from .% in the previous year to .% in the current
year mainly on account of stringent cost control measures adopted
by the Company coupled with higher revenue base in the current
year. Net Proﬁt Margin (%) . . Return on Net Worth (%) . . DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION
AND IMPAIRMENT EXPENSE The Return on Average Net Worth has improved from .% in the
previous year to .% in the current year on the base of higher
profit for the current year. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment as a percentage of
revenue from Operations have decreased from .% in the previous
year to .% in the current year mainly due to higher revenue base in
the current year. FINANCE COSTS
The interest expense as a percentage of revenue has decreased from
.% in the previous year to .% in the current year mainly on
account of repayment of borrowings in the current year. Explanation for variation of % or more in Key Financial Ratio:
Interest Coverage Ratio: The interest coverage ratio is healthier at
. in FY - as against . in the previous year primarily due
to decrease in finance cost resulting from repayment of borrowings
during the year. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
POSITION OF THE M&M GROUP
As on 31st March, , for the purpose of consolidation as per Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS), the Group comprised of the flagship
holding company Mahindra & Mahindra Limited: Tech Mahindra Limited, Flagship Company in the IT Sector, reported
a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. , crores in the current
year as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous year,
registering an increase of .%. Its consolidated profit after tax
after non-controlling interests is Rs. , crores as compared to Rs.
, crores in the previous year, registering a decrease of .%. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Subsidiaries Joint Ventures Associates The Group's finance company, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited, a listed subsidiary of the Company (Mahindra
Finance), reported a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. ,
crores during the current year as compared to Rs. , crores in
the previous year, registering an increase of .%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs.
, crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous year,
registering an increase of .%. Mahindra Finance customer base
has crossed . million customers and currently has a network of
, offices. The Consolidated Revenue from operations is Rs. ,, crores in
the current year as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous
year, registering an increase of .%.
The consolidated profit before exceptional items, share of profit of
associates and joint ventures and tax for the year is Rs. ,
crores as against Rs. , crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of .%. The consolidated profit after tax after noncontrolling interests and exceptional items for the year is Rs. ,
crores as against Rs. , crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of .%. Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, the listed subsidiary in the
business of real estate and infrastructure, reported a consolidated
operating revenue of Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores in
the previous year, registering an increase of .%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering
a decrease of .%. Swaraj Engines Limited*, a listed subsidiary in the business of
manufacture of Diesel Engines and its components, reported
operating revenue of Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. ,
crores in the previous year registering an increase of %. The profit
after tax for the year is Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores
in the previous year, registering an increase of .%.
* During the year ended 31st March, , the controlling status was changed from
associate to subsidiary. Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited, the listed subsidiary in
the business of timeshare, registered a consolidated operating
revenue of Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the
previous year, registering an increase of %. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of .%. SEGMENT RESULTS FROM CONTINUING
OPERATIONS (BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM)
The results achieved by major business segments of the Group are
given below: (Rs. in crores) Mahindra Logistics Limited, a listed subsidiary in the logistics
business, reported a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. ,
crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous year
registering an increase of .%. The consolidated profit after tax
after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. crores as
compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of .%. Segments F- F- . Automotive , , . Farm Equipment , , . Financial Services , , . Hospitality . Real Estate () () . Others . Eliminations
Total , , DISCLAIMER
Certain statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis
describing the Company's objectives, projections, estimates,
expectations or predictions may be "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations.
Actual results could differ from those expressed or implied.
Important factors that could make a difference to the Company's
operations include raw material availability and prices, cyclical
demand and pricing in the Company's principal markets, changes in
Government regulations, tax regimes, economic developments
within India and the countries in which the Company conducts
business and other incidental factors. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY
GOVERNANCE ON CORPORATE The Late Mr. Keshub Mahindra was a firm believer of
doing business in the right way and always ensured
that performance is driven by integrity and value. The
Company follows a culture that is built on core values and
professionalism ingrained into the Company by the Founders
which have over the past more than seventy five years of
the Company’s existence become a part of its DNA.
Your Company has always practiced Corporate Governance
of the highest standards. Its philosophy on Corporate
Governance is embedded in its rich legacy of fair, ethical
and transparent governance practices, many of which were
in place even before they were mandated under the law.
During the year, your Company continued to feature in the
‘Leadership’ category in the Indian Corporate Governance
Scorecard which is developed by Institutional
Investor Advisory Services India Limited (“IiAS”) with
support from International Finance Corporation (“IFC”)
and BSE Limited (“BSE”) built around the G20/OECD
Principles of Corporate Governance, which is the globally
accepted benchmark for Corporate Governance. This
year IiAS has revised the framework for assessment of
the Indian Corporate
Governance Scorecard and also
enchanced the threshold for the Leadership category.
A Report on compliance with the Corporate Governance
provisions as prescribed under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, , as amended from time to
time (“Listing Regulations”) is given herein below: I. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The composition of the Board of your Company is in
conformity with Regulation of the Listing Regulations.
The Chairman of your Company, though a Professional
Director in his individual capacity, is a Promoter &
Non‑Executive Director and the number of Non-Executive
and Independent Directors is more than one-half of the
total number of Directors.
Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
and Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director and CEO (Auto and
Farm Sector) are the Whole-time Directors of your Company.
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar was re-designated as “Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)” of the Company with effect
from 15th March, . The remaining Non-Executive Directors
comprise of Seven Independent Directors (including Three
Woman Directors) and two Non-Independent Directors. During
the Financial Year -, there was no change in the
number of Directors of your Company.
The composition of the Board represents an optimum
combination of knowledge, experience and skills from
diverse fields including manufacturing, finance, economics,
law, governance, etc. which are required by the Board
to discharge its responsibilities effectively. The Directors
take active part in the deliberations at the Board and
Committee Meetings by providing valuable guidance
and expert advice to the Management on various aspects
of business, policy direction, strategy, governance, compliance,
etc. and play a critical role on strategic issues and add
value in the decision making process of the Board of Directors.
The maximum tenure of Independent Directors is in
compliance with the Companies Act, (“the Act”) and
the Listing Regulations. All the Independent Directors have
provided an annual confirmation that they meet the criteria
of Independence as mentioned in Regulation ()(b)
of the Listing Regulations and section () of the Act.
Based on the confirmations/ disclosures received from the
Independent Directors, the Board is of the opinion that
the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified
in the Listing Regulations and are Independent of the
Management.
Apart from reimbursement of expenses incurred in the
discharge of their duties, the remuneration that these
Directors were entitled to under the Act as Non-Executive
Directors and the remuneration that a Non-Executive
Director may receive for professional services rendered to
the Company through a firm in which he is a partner, none
of these Directors have any other pecuniary relationships
with your Company, its Subsidiaries or Associates or their
Promoters or Directors, during the three immediately
preceding financial years or during the current financial year.
None of the Directors of your Company are inter-se related
to each other.
Mr. CP Gurnani, being a Whole-time Director of Tech
Mahindra Limited, has waived his right to receive sitting
fees for attending the Meetings of the Board of Directors
or any Committee thereof on which he may be appointed
from time to time or any other remuneration payable to
the Non‑Executive Directors of the Company, effective COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE from 1st April, being the date of his appointment as a
Director on the Board of Directors of the Company, during
his tenure as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Professional fees for the year under review to Khaitan &
Co., Mumbai, Advocates & Solicitors and Khaitan & Co. LLP,
Advocates and Solicitors, in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, NonExecutive and Independent Director is a partner, amounted to BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Rs. . lakhs and Rs. . lakhs (including out of pocket
expenses), respectively.
The Senior Management of your Company has made
disclosures to the Board confirming that there are no material
financial and commercial transactions between them and the
Company which could has potential conflict of interest with
the Company at large. A. Composition of the Board
The Board of your Company comprises of Twelve Directors as on 31st March, and as on date of this Report. Board Composition
Board Demographics Gender Diversity (% age of Board Position) % Executive Directors %
Women % Independent Directors
(Including Women
Independent Directors
- %) %
% Male Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Directors None of the Directors is a Director (including any alternate directorships) in more than public limited companies (as specified
in section of the Act) and Director in more than equity listed entities or acts as an Independent Director in more
than equity listed entities or equity listed entities in case he/she serves as a Whole-time Director/ Managing Director in
any listed entity (as specified in Regulation 17A of the Listing Regulations). Further, none of the Directors on the Board is a
Member of more than Committees and Chairperson of more than Committees (as specified in Regulation of the Listing
Regulations), across all the Indian public limited companies in which he/ she is a Director.
The name and categories of Directors, DIN, the number of Directorships, Committee positions held by them in the companies
and the names of listed entities where he/she is a Director alongwith the category of their Directorships and other details are
given hereafter. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Board of Directors as on 31st March, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Dr. Anish Shah (DIN – )
Promoter - Chairman (DIN – )
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment Nationality USA (OCI Card Holder,
Resident of India) Age Date of Appointment 1st April, November, Tenure on Board years Term Ending Date 31st March, Tenure on Board years and months Shareholding ,, Shares (.%) Term Ending Date N.A. Shareholding ,, Shares (.%) rd Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer Tech Mahindra Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director  ahindra & Mahindra Financial
M
Services Limited Chairman, Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Promoter - Chairman  ahindra Lifespace Developers
M
Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Tech Mahindra Limited Chairman, Non-Executive
Non‑Independent Director  ahindra Holidays & Resorts
M
India Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Mahindra Logistics Limited Chairman, Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Nil Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Nil Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Other Directorships* Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN – )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) (DIN – )
Lead Independent Director Nationality Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 30th May, Tenure on Board years and months Indian Age Date of Appointment 1st April, Tenure on Board years Term Ending Date 7th August, (End of 2nd Term) Term Ending Date 31st March, Shareholding , Shares (.%) Shareholding , Shares (.%) Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Swaraj Engines Limited Executive Director (Automotive and
Farm Sectors) (upto 14th March,
), Re-Designated as Executive
Director and CEO (Auto and Farm
Sector) w.e.f. 15th March, Chairman, Non-Executive
Non‑Independent Director Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Lead Independent Director Colgate-Palmolive (India) Limited Independent Director Apollo Tyres Limited Independent Director Jubilant FoodWorks Limited Independent Director Larsen and Toubro Limited Independent Director InterGlobe Aviation Limited Independent Director Global Health Limited Independent Director Other Directorships* — Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Business
Experience Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Dr. Vishakha N. Desai Mr. T. N. Manoharan (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Independent Director Nationality USA (Nationality of Origin‑Indian) Age Date of Appointment 30th May, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date 30th April, (End of 2nd Term) Shareholding , Shares (.%) Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Other Directorships* Nil Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 11th November, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date 10th November, (End of 2nd Term) Shareholding Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Tech Mahindra Limited Independent Director IDBI Bank Limited Independent Director Other Directorships* Nil Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Governance and
Regulatory
oversight
Technology and
Innovation Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Business
Experience Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Ms. Shikha Sharma (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Independent Director STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Nationality Indian Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 8th August, Age Tenure on Board years and months Date of Appointment 8th August, Term Ending Date 7th August, (1st Term) Tenure on Board years and months Shareholding Nil Term Ending Date 7th August, (1st Term) Shareholding Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director CEAT Limited Independent Director Torrent Pharmaceuticals Limited Independent Director Tech Mahindra Limited Independent Director JSW Steel Limited Independent Director Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited Independent Director Tata Consumer Products Limited Independent Director Borosil Renewables Limited Independent Director Tech Mahindra Limited Independent Director  VR Inox Limited (name changed
P
from PVR Limited with effect from
20th April, ) Independent Director Piramal Enterprises Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Governance and
Regulatory
oversight
Technology and
Innovation Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Other Directorships* Nil Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure Business
Experience Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Ms. Nisaba Godrej Mr. Muthiah Murugappan (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Independent Director Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 8th August, Tenure on Board year and months Term Ending Date 7th August, (1st Term) Shareholding Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Godrej Consumer Products Limited Executive Chairperson Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 8th August, Tenure on Board year and months Term Ending Date 7th August, (1st Term) Shareholding Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Godrej Agrovet Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director VIP Industries Limited Independent Director E.I.D. Parry (India) Limited Whole Time Director & CEO Bharti Airtel Limited Independent Director Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Nil Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma Mr. CP Gurnani (DIN – )
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of LIC) (DIN – )
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director Nationality Indian Nationality Indian Age Age Date of Appointment 14th November, Date of Appointment 1st April, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date N.A. Tenure on Board years Shareholding Nil Term Ending Date N.A. Shareholding , Shares (.%) Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director (Nominee of LIC) Tata Steel Limited Independent Director Reliance Power Limited Independent Director NURECA Limited Independent Director Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Non-Executive Non- Independent
Director Tech Mahindra Limited Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer Other Directorships* Other Directorships* Nil Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Sales and Marketing
Exposure Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Sales and
Marketing Exposure Area
of Expertise Business
Experience Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B. Board Procedure
A detailed Agenda, setting out the business to be transacted
at the Meeting(s), supported by detailed Notes and
Presentation(s) if any, is sent to each Director at least seven
days before the date of the Board Meeting(s) and of the
Committee Meeting(s) except where Meeting(s) have been
convened at a shorter notice to transact urgent business.
To provide a web-based solution, a soft copy of the said
Agenda(s) and Presentation(s) is also uploaded on the
Board Portal which acts as a document repository. Video
Conferencing facilities are provided to enable Director(s) who
are unable to attend the Meeting(s) in person, to participate
in the Meeting.
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities
effectively and take informed decisions, the Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer apprises the Board at
every Meeting of the overall performance of your Company,
followed by Presentation(s) by the Executive Director, the
Sector President(s) and Chief Financial Officer. A detailed
functional Report is also presented at the Board Meeting(s).
The Board also, inter alia, periodically reviews strategy and
business plans, annual operating and capital expenditure
budget(s), investment and exposure limit(s), compliance
report(s) of all laws applicable to your Company, as well
as steps taken by your Company to rectify instances of
non‑compliances, performance of operating divisions, review
of major legal issues, Minutes of the Committees of the
Board and of Board Meetings of your Company’s subsidiaries,
significant transactions and arrangements entered into by
the unlisted subsidiary companies, approval of quarterly
/ half-yearly / annual results, significant labour problems
and their proposed solutions, safety and risk management,
transactions pertaining to purchase/disposal of property(ies),
sale of investments, major accounting provisions and writeoffs, corporate restructuring, joint ventures or collaboration
agreement(s), material default in financial obligations, if any,
fatal or serious accidents, any material effluent or pollution
problems, transactions that involve substantial payment
towards goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property, any
issue that involves possible public or product liability claims
of substantial nature, including judgement or order which
may have passed strictures on the conduct of your Company,
quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the
steps taken by Management to limit the risks of adverse
exchange rate movement, statutory updates, etc.
The Board sets annual performance objectives, oversees the
actions and results of the management, evaluates its own
performance, performance of its Committees and individual Directors on an annual basis and monitors the effectiveness
of the Company’s governance practices for enhancing the
stakeholders’ value.
The Board of Directors of your Company closely monitors
the performance of the Company and Management, approves
the plans, reviews the strategy and strives to achieve
organisational growth. Your Board ensures statutory and
ethical conduct and places high importance on the internal
financial reporting.
Your Company has well-established framework for the
Meetings of the Board and its Committees which seeks to
systematise the decision making process at the Meetings
in an informed and efficient manner. Regular inputs and
feedback of Board Members are taken and considered while
preparing the Agenda and related documents for the Board
and Committee Meetings. The Board also has access to the
Members of the Management and to the Company related
information.
Apart from Board Members and the Company Secretary, the
Board and Committee Meeting(s) are also attended by the
Chief Financial Officer and wherever required by the Heads
of various Corporate Functions.
The Company Secretary plays a key role in ensuring that
the Board (including Committees thereof) procedures are
followed and regularly reviewed. The Company Secretary is
primarily responsible to assist and advise the Board in the
conduct of affairs of the Company, to ensure compliance
with applicable statutory requirements, to provide guidance
to Directors, to facilitate convening of Meetings and acts
as interface between the Management and Regulatory
Authorities for Governance related matters of the Company. C. 
Number
of
Board
Meetings
and
Attendance of the Directors at Meetings
of the Board
During the year 1st April, to 31st March, , Nine
Board Meetings were held on 28th May, , 7th July,
, 5th August, , 19th August, , 9th September,
, 10th & 11th November, , 21st November, ,
10th February, and 15th March, . The Board met at
least once in every Calendar Quarter and the gap between
two consecutive Meetings did not exceed one hundred and
twenty days. These Meetings were well attended by the
Directors. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS The attendance of the Directors at these Meetings held during the year, was as under: Board Attendance
Board Meeting Dates and Mode
Name of Directors 28th
May, 7th
July, 5th
August, 19th
August, 9th
September, 10th & 11th
November, 21st
November, 10th
February, 15th
March, Hybrid VC Hybrid VC VC Hybrid VC Hybrid Hybrid     
  % %
% Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Anish Shah  
 Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar   
  Held
during the
Year Attended % of
attendance
of a Director % % % Dr. Vishakha N. Desai  Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta       +
 
 %    %   %  % % % Mr. T. N. Manoharan  Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma  
 Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. CP Gurnani  Ms. Nisaba Godrej 
 Mr. Muthiah Murugappan  % of attendance at a Meeting % Attended through Video Conference %  Leave of Absence +  % %  % %  
 % % Attended in-person D. Attendance of the Directors at the last
Annual General Meeting and Meeting
of the Equity Shareholders as per the
Order of the Hon’ble National Company
Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench
The 76th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of your Company
was held on 5th August, through Video Conferencing
(“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) facility. Name of Directors %  Further, a Meeting of the Equity Shareholders of your
Company was convened on 19th August, through VC/
OVAM facility as per the directions of the Hon’ble National
Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench vide its Order dated
10th June, (“CCM”).
The attendance of the Directors at the said Meetings held
during the year, was as under: AGM, CCM Shareholders Meeting 5th August, 19th August, during the year Attended % of attendance of a
Director Mr. Anand G. Mahindra % Dr. Anish Shah % Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar % Dr. Vishakha N. Desai % Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta % Mr. T. N. Manoharan % Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma % Mr. Haigreve Khaitan % Ms. Shikha Sharma % Mr. CP Gurnani % % %  Ms. Nisaba Godrej
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
% of attendance at a Meeting
Attended through Video Conference %  Leave of Absence % MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Pursuant to removal of the restriction of conducting
Board Meeting(s) through Video Conferencing/Other AudioVisual Means for selected Agenda Items by the Ministry
of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’), a majority of the Board and
Committee Meeting(s) were held through hybrid mode
where the Directors were given an option to join the Meeting
through Video Conferencing (VC) facility. The VC facility was
provided for all Board and Committee Meetings held during
the year under review. E. Meetings of Independent Directors
The Independent Directors of your Company often meet
before the Board Meeting(s) without the presence of the
Chairman, the Managing Director or the Executive Director or
other Non‑Independent Director(s) or any other Management
Personnel.
These Meetings are conducted in an informal and flexible
manner to enable the Independent Directors to, inter alia,
discuss matters pertaining to review of performance of
Non-Independent Directors and the Board of Directors as
a whole, review the performance of the Chairman of the
Company (taking into account the views of other Executive
and Non-Executive Directors), assess the quality, quantity
and timeliness of flow of information between the Company
Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board of
Directors to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
Five Meetings of Independent Directors were held during the
year under review and these Meetings were well attended by
the Independent Directors.
The Independent Directors communicate as appropriate,
suggestions, views or concerns to the Chairman or Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer upon conclusion of their
Meeting(s). F. Director(s) seeking Re‑appointment
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman and Mr. Vijay Kumar
Sharma, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee
of LIC) are liable to retire by rotation and being eligible for
re-appointment at the ensuing AGM of your Company, have
offered themselves for re-appointment. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Chairman
Mr. Mahindra graduated Magna Cum Laude from Harvard
College () and secured an MBA from the Harvard
Business School (). He made a generous endowment in to the Harvard Humanities Center which is now known
as the Mahindra Humanities Centre at Harvard. In he was bestowed the Harvard Business School’s Alumni Achievement Award and in he became the first Indian
recipient of the Harvard Alumni Association’s Harvard Medal.
Mr. Mahindra was first appointed as a Director on the Board
of the Company on 23rd November, . He then took over
as Deputy Managing Director of the Company in at a
time when the turnover was US$ million. He initiated
a comprehensive change programme to make the Company
an efficient and aggressive competitor in the new liberalised
economic environment in India.
In April , he was appointed as Managing Director of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and in January, given
the additional responsibility of Vice Chairman. In August,
, he was appointed as Chairman and designated as
Chairman & Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited. In November, , Mr. Mahindra was re-designated
as Executive Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited.
Mr. Anand Mahindra’s tenure has seen the Group expand
domestically and internationally into a range of major industrial
sectors from automobiles and agriculture to IT and aerospace.
He has served on several influential bodies, national and
international. These include the Reserve Bank of India Board,
UN Global Compact Board, Global Board of Advisors of the
Council on Foreign Relations, World Bank Group’s Advisory
Board for Doing Business and the International Advisory
Council of Singapore’s Economic Development Board. He has
been the President of The Confederation of Indian Industry
and served on the boards of the National Stock Exchange of
India and the National Council of Applied Economic Research.
He is currently on the board of Invest India, the National
Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency.
Mr. Mahindra has been conferred with the Padma Bhushan
Award (), India’s third-highest civilian honour, for
his contribution to the nation in the field of ‘Trade and
Industry’. He has been named in Barron’s List of Top CEOs worldwide () and Fortune Magazine’s list of the
World’s Greatest Leaders (). He was a recipient of
the Best Transformational Leader Award by the Asian Centre
for Corporate Governance & Sustainability (). He was
appointed ‘Knight in the National Order of the Legion of
Honour’ by the President of the French Republic () and
conferred the ‘Grand Officer of the Order of the Star of Italy’
by the President of Italy ().
Mr. Mahindra is an incisive business commentator and
humanitarian with over million followers on Twitter.
Among his many social change initiatives is the Nanhi Kali
programme, which, for the last two decades, has provided
over , underprivileged girls access to high-quality
education. Mr. Mahindra is the Chairman of the Board of COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE Naandi Foundation, India’s leading NGO focused on educating
girls, skilling youth and providing sustainable livelihoods to
small farmers through biodynamic agriculture. Mr. Mahindra
also serves on the Founders Board of The Rise Fund, a
$ billion impact fund.
He is a strong votary of arts and culture. Mahindra Blues,
Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Awards and Mahindra
Sanatkada celebrate and nurture music, theatre culture, art
and history in India. Mr. Mahindra is the member of the Global
Advisory Council of the Lincoln Center, New York and has
previously served on the Board of Trustees of the Natural
History Museum of London.
In , Mr. Mahindra founded the Pro Kabaddi League to
popularize the ancient and popular Indian game of kabaddi.
The league, televised through the STAR television network, is
aimed at creating a new popular fan following for Kabbadi as
an antithesis to cricket.
As Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Anand Mahindra serves as
mentor and sounding board for the Managing Director and
Senior Management especially in the areas of strategic
planning, risk mitigation and external interface. He continues
to play an important role in epitomising and building Brand
Mahindra. He is available to provide feedback and counsel to
the Managing Director and Senior Management on key issues
facing the Company.
Mr. Mahindra has completed years of age.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman of Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Classic Legends
Private Limited and Mahindra Holdings Limited and Director
of Prudential Management & Services Private Limited, The
Mahindra United World College of India, Tech Mahindra
Foundation, Araku Originals Private Limited, Naandi
Community Water Services Private Limited, Breach Candy
Hospital Trust, Invest India and The Indian and Eastern
Engineer Company Private Limited.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is also a Part-time Non-official Director
of Central Board of Reserve Bank of India.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is a Chairman/Member of the following
Board Committees:
Name of the
Company Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Strategic Investment Committee
Sale of Assets Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee
Stakeholders Relationship Committee Chairman
Chairman
Member
Member BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Mr. Mahindra holds ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company.
Mr. Mahindra has not resigned as a Director from any listed
Company in the past three years and is not inter-se related
to any other Director of the Company.
 Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of
LIC)
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is a post-graduate (M.Sc.) from
Patna University.
Mr. Sharma joined Life Insurance Corporation of India
(“LIC”) as Direct Recruit Officer in and grew up with
the Corporation since then. He held various challenging
assignments pan India and in all operational streams including
in-charge positions at different levels. Working across length
and breadth of the country has added immensely to his
experience and honed his understanding of demographics
of the country, socioeconomic needs of different regions
and multi-cultural challenges in implementation of LIC’s
objectives.
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma superannuated as Chairman of LIC
on 31st December, . Prior to his taking over as Chairman
on 16th December , he served as Chairman (In charge)
from 16th September, and Managing Director of
LIC from 1st November, . From December, to
November, , he served as Managing Director & Chief
Executive Officer, LIC Housing Finance Limited (LIC HFL), a
premier housing finance company in the country.
As MD & CEO of LIC HFL, he stabilized the operations under
most challenging circumstances of negative media glare,
intense scrutiny by Regulator & others and turned it around
to be the best Housing Finance Company in .
He has been an inspirational leader who utilizes negotiation
skills gained over thirty seven years of extensive experience
in insurance and financial sectors and strongly connects to
the grass root levels, believes in bottom-up approach and has
the ability to see the Big Picture and translate it to reality.
He is known as Growth Leader, leading the Organisation to
surge ahead and turnaround on its growth path in all the
segments of performance.
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma has completed years of age.
Mr. Sharma is Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Independent Director of Tata
Steel Limited, Reliance Power Limited, NURECA Limited,
Vidarbha Industries Power Limited and Director of Ambuja
Cement Foundation. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is a Chairman/ Member of the
following Board Committees:
Sr.
No. Name of the
Company Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Strategic Investment
Committee Member Tata Steel Limited Stakeholders Relationship
Committee Chairman Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member . . Reliance Power
Limited can be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
All the Board Members and Senior Management Personnel
have affirmed compliance with these Codes. A declaration
signed by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
to this effect is enclosed at the end of this Report.
The Code of Conduct for the Board Members of the Company
also includes Code for Independent Directors which is a guide
to professional conduct for Independent Directors, pursuant
to section () and Schedule IV of the Act. H. CEO/CFO Certiﬁcation Safety Health and Environment Member
Committee
. Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Chairman Stakeholders Relationship
Committee Chairman Audit Committee Member CSR Committee Member Risk Management Committee Member Vidarbha Industries Audit Committee
Power Limited Chairman CSR Committee Chairman Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma does not hold any Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company.
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma has resigned as a Director of ACC
Limited on 20th July, and is not inter-se related to any
other Director of the Company. G. Codes of Conduct
The Board of your Company has laid down two separate
Codes of Conduct (“Codes”), one for all the Board Members
and the other for Employees of the Company. These Codes
have been posted on the website of your Company and The Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Group
Chief Financial Officer of the Company have jointly provided
an annual certification on financial reporting and internal
controls to the Board in terms of Regulation () of the
Listing Regulations and quarterly certification on financial
results while placing the financial results before the Board in
terms of Regulation () of the Listing Regulations. I. I nduction and Familiarisation Programme
for Independent Directors A newly appointed Independent Director is provided with
an appointment letter along with their roles, duties &
responsibilities and copies of the Code for Independent
Directors and Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors, etc.
as may be applicable to them.
Each newly appointed Independent Director is taken
through an induction and familiarisation program including
the presentation and interactive session with the Managing
Director and CEO, Executive Director, other Functional
Heads on the Company’s manufacturing, marketing and
other important aspects. The Company Secretary briefs the
Director about their legal & regulatory responsibilities as
a Director. The program also includes visit to the plant to
familiarise them with all facets of manufacturing.
Pursuant to Regulation () of the Listing Regulations,
the Company imparted various familiarisation programmes
for its Directors including periodic review of Investments
of the Company at Strategic Investment Committee
Meetings, Regulatory updates, Industry Outlook, Business
Strategy at the Board Meetings and changes with respect
to the Companies Act, Taxation and other matters, Listing COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Regulations, Framework for Related Party Transactions, etc.
at the Audit Committee Meetings, Economic Environment &
Global Scenario, Frontier Risks, Business Entity Risks, etc. at
the Risk Management Committee Meetings, Products Launch
and Showcase of New Vehicles, etc. The details as required
under Regulations and (1A) of the Listing Regulations
are available on the website of your Company at the web link:
https://mahindra.com/sites/default/files/-/disclosuresunder-regulation--and--of-sebi-lodr.pdf. Sr.
No. Skills Particulars . Business Experience Established leadership skills in strategic
planning, succession planning, driving
change and long-term growth and guiding
the Company towards its vision, mission
and values. J. B
 oard Conﬁrmation regarding
Independence of the Independent
Directors . Global business/
broad international
exposure / emerging
markets experience Global mindset and staying updated on
global market opportunities, experience
in driving business success in markets
around the world with an understanding
of diverse business environments,
economic conditions, sensitivity to
cultural diversity and adaptability. . Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight The Company uses various financial
metrics to measure its performance.
Accurate Financial Reporting and Robust
Auditing are critical to its success. All the Independent Directors of the Company have given
declaration/disclosures under section () of the Act and
Regulation () of the Listing Regulations and have confirmed
that they fulfil the independence criteria as specified under
section () of the Act and Regulation of the Listing
Regulations and have also confirmed that they are not
aware of any circumstance or situation, which exist or may
be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their
ability to discharge their duties with an objective independent
judgement and without any external inﬂuence.
Further, the Board after taking these declaration/ disclosures
on record and acknowledging the veracity of the same,
concluded that the Independent Directors are persons of
integrity and possess the relevant expertise and experience
to qualify as Independent Directors of the Company and are
Independent of the Management. K. Matrix setting out the core skills/
expertise/competence of the Board
of Directors
A chart/ matrix setting out the core skills/ expertise/
competencies identified by the Board of Directors in the
context of the Company’s businesses and sectors as required
for it to function effectively and those actually available with
the Board alongwith the names of Directors who have such
skills/expertise/competence, are given below: Critically analysing complex and detailed
information and developing innovative
solutions and striking a balance between
agility and consistency. The Company expects its Directors :.	To have an understanding of Finance
and Financial Reporting Processes;
.	To understand and oversee various
risks facing the Company and
ensure that appropriate policies
and procedures are in place to
effectively manage risk.
. Technology and
Innovation An appreciation of emerging trends
in product design and development,
research, disruptions in technology and
in business models. . Governance and
Regulatory oversight Devise systems for compliance with
a variety of regulatory requirements,
reviewing compliance and governance
practices for a long term sustainable
growth of the Company and protecting
stakeholders’ interest. . Sales and Marketing
Exposure Ability in developing strategies to
increase
market
share
through
innovation, build better brand experience
for customers, improve prospective
customer engagement levels and help
establish active customers become loyal
brand followers. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Skills
Name of Directors Business
Experience Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience Financial
Experience and
Risk Oversight Technology and
Innovation Governance
and Regulatory
oversight Sales and
Marketing
Exposure Mr. Anand G. Mahindra √ √ √ √ √ √ Dr. Anish Shah √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar √ √ √ √ √ √ Dr. Vishakha N. Desai √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta √ √ √ — √ √ Mr. T. N. Manoharan √ √ √ √ √ — Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma √ — √ — √ √ Mr. Haigreve Khaitan √ √ √ √ √ — Ms. Shikha Sharma √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. CP Gurnani √ √ √ √ √ √ Ms. Nisaba Godrej √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. Muthiah Murugappan √ √ √ √ √ √ L. Resignation of Independent Director(s)
During the year under review, none of the Independent
Directors of the Company had resigned before the expiry of
their respective tenure(s). M. Lead Independent Director
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Independent Director and Chairman
of Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
has been appointed as the Lead Independent Director with
effect from 1st April, .
As a Lead Independent Director, Mr. Mehta has been entrusted,
inter alia, with the following roles and responsibilities: (iii)	Convene exclusive Meeting(s) of Independent
Directors, set agenda, preside over the meetings of
the Independent Directors and provide feedback to the
Chairperson / Board of Directors after such Meetings;
(iv)	Preside over Meetings of the Board at which the
Chairperson is not present;
(v)	Identify critical issues for the Board to deal with and
assist the Board in achieving consensus on important
issues;
(vi)	Communicate to the Chairman and Management, as
appropriate, any decisions reached, suggestions, views
or concerns expressed by Independent Directors at
their Meetings or outside of the Board Meetings; (i)	Provide leadership to the Independent Directors
and liaise between the Chairperson of the Board
and Independent Directors without inhibiting direct
communication between them; (vii)	Play the role of a facilitator outside the Boardroom,
especially, on contentious issues; (ii)	Ensure Board effectiveness to maintain high-quality
governance of the Company and the effective
functioning of the Board; (ix)	Take the lead role, along with Chairman in assessing
the performance evaluation of the Board and that of
Individual Director. (viii)	Provide candid feedback to MD & CEO and CFO post
Meeting of Independent Directors; and COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE II. REMUNERATION TO DIRECTORS
A. Remuneration Policy
Your Company has a well-defined Policy for Remuneration of
the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other Employees.
This Policy is available on the website of the Company and can
be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link: https://
www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
The Governance Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(“GNRC”) while deciding the basis for determining the
compensation, both fixed and variable to the Non-Executive
Directors, takes into consideration various factors such as
Director’s participation in Board and Committee Meetings
during the year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as
Membership or Chairmanship of Committees, time spent in
carrying out other duties, role and functions as envisaged in
Schedule IV of the Act and Listing Regulations and such other
factors as the GNRC deems fit. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT B. Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors
for the year ended 31st March, Pursuant to the approval granted by the Members of the
Company at the 69th AGM held on 7th August, , the eligible
Non-Executive Directors are paid commission upto a maximum
of % of the net profits of the Company for each financial
year, as computed in the manner laid down in section of
the Act or any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s)
thereof or Rs. crores in the aggregate, whichever is lower;
provided that none of such Directors shall, in any Financial
Year individually receive a portion of such remuneration more
than one quarter percent of the net profits of the Company. CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Further, based on approval of the Shareholders of the
Company at the 75th AGM held on 6th August, ,
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman (Non-Executive Director)
of the Company will be paid a fixed Commission of Rs. .
crores per annum, with effect from 12th November, .
During the year under review, the following Non-Executive
Directors were paid a commission of Rs. . lakhs
(provided for in the accounts for the year ended 31st March,
), distributed amongst the Directors as follows: The elements of remuneration package of Executive Directors
include salary, benefits, stock options, provident fund, etc.
and is decided based on the individual performance as well
as performance of the Company, inﬂation, prevailing industry
trends and benchmarks. The Non-Executive Directors are paid
remuneration in the form of sitting fees for attending the
meetings of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof,
as approved by the Board of Directors and Commission.
Based on the Shareholders’ approval, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra,
as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company is entitled to
Remuneration (by way of monthly payment) and Commission
apart from sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the
Board of Directors or any Committee thereof as approved
by the Board of Directors for Non-Executive Directors of the
Company and also Reimbursements and Benefits as per the
Company’s Policy with effect from 12th November, . STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS * Name of Directors Commission for the year
ended 31st March, ,
paid during the year
under review
(Rs. In Lakhs) Mr. Anand G. Mahindra* . Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta . Dr. Vishakha N. Desai . Mr. T. N. Manoharan . Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
(Nominee of LIC) .# Mr. Haigreve Khaitan .## Ms. Shikha Sharma . Mr. CP Gurnani^ Nil Ms. Nisaba Godrej . Mr. Muthiah Murugappan . Non-Executive Chairman from 12th November, . # Commission is paid to LIC.
##	Commission was paid to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a
Partner.
^	Mr. CP Gurnani being a Whole-time Director of Tech Mahindra Limited, has
waived his right to receive Sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the Board
of Directors or any Committee or any other remuneration payable to the
Non‑Executive Directors of the Company. A commission of Rs. lakhs has been provided as payable
to the Non-Executive Directors in the accounts for the year
under review. Non-Executive Directors are also paid sitting
fees of Rs. ,, each for every Meeting of the Board
and Rs. , each for every Committee Meeting other
than Stakeholders Relationship Committee (increased from
Rs. , to Rs. , with effect from 11th February,
). The sitting fees paid for every Meeting of Stakeholders
Relationship Committee is Rs. , each for Non‑Executive
Director. Additionally, Non-Executive Directors are also
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of
their official duties. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - The sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the commission payable to them for the year ended 31st March, along
with their respective shareholdings in your Company are as under: Name of Directors Sitting Fees paid for the Board
and Committee Meetings held
during the year ended
31st March, (Rs. in Lakhs) Commission for the year ended
31st March, , provided as
payable in the accounts of the
Company for the year under review
(Rs. in Lakhs) No. of Ordinary (Equity)
Shares held as on
31st March, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra . . ,, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta . . , Dr. Vishakha N. Desai . . , Mr. T. N. Manoharan . . Nil Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (Nominee of LIC) . # . Nil Mr. Haigreve Khaitan .## .## Nil Ms. Shikha Sharma . . Nil Mr. CP Gurnani^ Nil Nil , Ms. Nisaba Godrej . . Nil Mr. Muthiah Murugappan . . Nil #
Commission is payable to LIC.
## Sitting fees/Commission were paid/are payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a Partner.
^	Mr. CP Gurnani being a Whole-time Director of Tech Mahindra Limited, has waived his right to receive Sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the Board of
Directors or any Committee or any other remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The Non-Executive Directors were not granted stock options during the year under review. C. 
Remuneration paid/payable
31st March, to the Whole‑time Directors for the year ended Remuneration to the Whole-time Directors is fixed by GNRC basis the approval of the Board of Directors and Shareholders at a
General Meeting. Following is the remuneration paid/payable to the Whole-time Directors during the year ended 31st March, :
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Salary Company’s
Contribution
to Funds1 Perquisites
and
Allowances Dr. Anish Shah (Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer) ,.# . .@ ,. Deputy Managing Director and Group Chief Financial
Officer from 1st April, to 1st April, and
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer from
2nd April, to 31st March, Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director
and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) .## . .@@ ,. 1st April, to 31st March, Designated as Executive Director (Automotive and
Farm Sectors) upto 14th March, and
re-designated as Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) from 15th March, . Directors #
##
@
@@ Total Contract Period Aggregate of the Company’s contributions to Superannuation Fund and Provident Fund.
Includes Performance pay of Rs. lakhs.
Includes Performance pay of Rs. lakhs.
Includes Rs. . lakhs being perquisite value of ESOPs of the Company exercised during the year.
Includes Rs. . lakhs being perquisite value of ESOPs of the Company exercised during the year. Notes:
a.
Notice period applicable to each of the Whole-time Directors is six months.
b.
Employee Stock Options and Performance Pay are the only components of remuneration that are performance-linked. All other components are fixed.
c.
There is no separate provision for payment of Severance Fees. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE D. Remuneration paid/payable to Mr. Anand
G. Mahindra, Non‑Executive Chairman
for the year ended 31st March, The remuneration of Mr. Anand G. Mahindra was recommended
by GNRC and subsequently approved by the Board of Directors
and thereafter by the Shareholders of the Company at the
75th AGM held on 6th August, . Further, the Shareholders
of the Company at the 76th AGM held on 5th August, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation ()(ca) of the
Listing Regulations, accorded their approval for payment of
remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra for the Financial Year
-, being an amount exceeding fifty percent of the
total annual remuneration payable to all the Non-Executive BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Directors of the Company for the Financial Year -.
Following is the remuneration paid/payable to Mr. Anand G.
Mahindra as Non-Executive Chairman during the year ended
31st March, :
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Director(s) Remuneration Commission Total* # Mr. Anand G. Mahindra * In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post
Retirement Benefit Scheme of the Company.
# Excludes Sitting Fees. E. The Stock Option granted to Directors, the period over which accrued and over which
exercisable are as under: Scheme
Options
granted in
December,
* Name of Directors (alongwith their Designation)
to whom Stock Options have been granted Options
Options
granted in granted in
June, September,
** Options
granted in
July, Options
granted in
August, Options
granted in
September, () () () () () () Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Independent Director N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Independent Director N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. *, Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. *, *,*** *,*** *,*** ,*** N.A. Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director & CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) ,***** @ @ Scheme
Name of Directors (alongwith their
Designation) to whom Stock Options have
been granted Options
Options
granted in granted in
January, November, Dr. Anish Shah,
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar,
Executive Director & CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) Options Options
granted granted
in June, in March, % Options
Options
granted granted in
in March, November,
! () () () () () () () () () () () N.A. N.A. *,,**** Nil Nil *, , ,, , , , *,**** *,**** *, *, , ,, , , , , *,**** @ Options
Options
Options
Options
Options
granted in granted in granted in granted in granted in
August, November, November, November, November, @
Unexercised Options lapsed.
Notes:
a.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra being a Promoter of the Company is not entitled to Stock Options.
b.	
Mr. T. N. Manoharan, Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma, Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, Ms. Shikha Sharma, Ms. Nisaba Godrej, Mr. Muthiah Murugappan and Mr. CP Gurnani have not been
granted any Stock Options. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Sr.
No. Options granted
at a discount in Vesting period Exercise period Exercise price () December, Already vested in December, Within five years from the date of vesting **Rs. per share*** () June, Already vested in June, Within five years from the date of vesting **Rs. per share*** () September, Four equal instalments in September , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share*** () July, Four equal instalments in July , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share*** () August, Four equal instalments in August , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share*** () September, Four equal instalments in September , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share***** () January, Five equal instalments in January , , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share***** () November, Five equal instalments in November , , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share***** () August, Four instalments in February , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share***** () November, Four instalments in May , , and respectively On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share***** () November, Three instalments in November , and On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share () November, Three instalments in November , and On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting Rs. per share () November, Three instalments in November , and On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is years from the date of vesting. Rs. per share () June, Five instalments in June , , , & On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is years from the date of vesting. Rs. per share () March, % Five instalments in March , , , & On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is years from the date of vesting. Rs. per share () March, ! Three instalments in March , & On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is years from the date of vesting. Rs. per share () November, Three instalments in November , & On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is years from the date of vesting. Rs. per share * All these Options have been exercised. ** The Options granted stand augmented by an equal number of Options and the Exercise Price stands reduced to half on account of the : Bonus Issue made in September, .
*** The number of Stock Options granted and outstanding as on 30th March, , stand augmented by an equal number of Options and Exercise Price stands reduced to half on account
of Sub-division of each Ordinary (Equity) Share of the Company having a Face Value of Rs. each fully paid-up into (Two) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Face Value of Rs. each
fully paid-up.
**** The Options granted and outstanding stand augmented by an equal number of Bonus Options on account of the : Bonus Issue made in December, . ***** The Options granted and outstanding stand augmented by an equal number of Options and the Exercise Price stands reduced to half on account of the : Bonus Issue made in
December, . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS III. RISK MANAGEMENT IV. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Your Company has a well-defined risk management
framework in place. The risk management framework works
at various levels across the Company. These levels form the
strategic defence cover of the Company’s risk management.
The Company has a robust organisational structure for
managing and reporting on risks. The Board Committees play a crucial role in the governance
structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal
with specific areas / activities as mandated by applicable
regulations; which concern the Company and need a closer
review. Majority of the Members constituting the Committees
are Independent Directors and each Committee is guided by
its Charter or Terms of Reference, which provide for the
scope, powers & duties and responsibilities. Your Company has constituted a Risk Management
Committee consisting of Board Members which is authorised
to monitor and review Risk Management plan and risk
certificate. The Committee is also empowered, inter alia, to
review and recommend to the Board the modifications to the
Risk Management Policy.
Further, the Board has constituted a Corporate Risk Council
comprising of the Senior Executives including Chief Risk
Officer of the Company. The terms of reference of the Council
comprise review of Risks and Risk Management Policy at
periodic intervals.
The Risk Management process has been established across
the Company and is designed to identify, assess and frame
a response to threats that affect the achievement of its
objectives. Further, it is embedded across all the major
functions and revolves around the goals and objectives of
the Company. The Chairperson of the respective Committee informs the
Board about the summary of the discussions held in the
respective Committee Meetings. The minutes of the Meeting
of all Committees are placed before the Board for review.
During the year, all recommendations of the Committees
of the Board which were mandatorily required have been
accepted by the Board.
There are Six Board constituted Committees as on
31st March, , which comprise of Five Statutory
Committees and One Non-statutory Committee (Voluntary
Committee), details of which are as follows: Board Committees as on 31st March, : The Board Governance, Nomination
and Remuneration
Committee Stakeholders Relationship
Committee Mr. T.N. Manoharan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Ms. Nisaba Godrej Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee Risk Management
Committee Strategic Investment
Committee* Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Anish Shah
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Dr. Anish Shah
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma Audit Committee Chairperson
Members
* Voluntary Committee MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - A. Audit Committee
This Committee comprises of the following Directors viz.
Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee), Ms. Shikha
Sharma, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta and Mr. Haigreve Khaitan.
All the Members of the Committee are Independent Directors
and possess strong accounting and financial management
knowledge. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to
the Committee.
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The terms of reference of this Committee are very wide and
are in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by
the Act and Part C of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations.
Besides having access to all the required information from
within the Company, the Committee can obtain external
professional advice whenever required. The Committee acts
as a link between the Statutory and the Internal Auditors
and the Board of Directors of the Company. It is authorised
to, inter alia, review and monitor the Auditor’s independence
and performance, scope and effectiveness of audit process,
oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and
the disclosure of its financial information, review with the
management the quarterly and annual financial statements
and auditor’s report before submission to the Board for
approval, select and establish accounting policies, review
Reports of the Statutory and the Internal Auditors and
meet with them to discuss their findings, suggestions and
other related matters, to consider and grant prior approval
for the related party transactions including material related
party transactions in terms of Regulation read with
Regulation ()(zc) and Regulation ()(zb) of the Listing
Regulations, granting omnibus approvals for related party
transactions subject to fulfilment of certain conditions
and quarterly reviews thereof, approve transaction(s) of
the Company or any Subsidiaries of the Company on one
hand, and any other person or entity on the other hand, the
purpose and effect of which is to benefit a related party of
the Company or any Subsidiaries of the Company.
The Committee is also authorised to scrutinise intercorporate loans and investments, valuation of undertakings
or assets of the Company, review the risk assessment and
minimisation procedures, evaluate internal financial controls
and risk management systems, monitor end use of the funds
raised through public offers and related matters, review the
utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/ investment by
the Company in the subsidiary companies exceeding Rs. crore or % of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever
is lower including existing loans/ advances / investments and
review compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, (“PIT Regulations”) at least once in a financial year and verify
that the systems for internal control are adequate and are
operating effectively. The terms of reference are also in line
with the regulatory requirements mandated in the Act and
Listing Regulations.
The Committee is also empowered to, inter alia, recommend
the remuneration payable to the Statutory Auditors, availing
of such other permitted services from the Auditors and
to recommend a change in the Auditors, if felt necessary.
Further, the Committee is empowered to recommend
to the Board, the appointment of Chief Financial Officer,
the term of appointment and remuneration of the Cost
Auditor, Internal Auditor, etc., review the functioning of the
Whistle-blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism, to consider and
comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes
involving merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on the listed
entity and its shareholders. The Committee also reviews
Financial Statements and Investments of unlisted subsidiary
companies, Management Discussion & Analysis of financial
condition and results of operations.
The Audit Committee has been granted powers as prescribed
under Regulation ()(c) of the Listing Regulations and
reviews all the information as prescribed in Part C of Schedule
II of the Listing Regulations. The Committee also reviews the
Report on compliance under Code of Conduct for Prevention
of Insider Trading adopted by the Company pursuant to PIT
Regulations. Further, Compliance Reports under the Sexual
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, and Whistle-blower Policy are also
placed before the Committee.
During the year under review, the Audit Committee was
additionally authorised to review the report submitted
by monitoring agency for the utilization of proceeds of
preferential issue or qualified institutions placement in
addition to public issue or rights issue pursuant to Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations, dated 14th November, .
Subsequent to the year end, Policy on Materiality of and
Dealing with Related Party Transactions was amended by
the Committee to make it more elaborate specifically in
view of further changes in the coverage of the related party
transactions with effect from 1st April, .
Further, the Committee also considered and recommended to
the Board amendment in the Code of Conduct for Prevention
of Insider Trading in Securities of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
and Policy on Insider Trading inter alia to align it with the Insider
Trading Regulations and prohibit derivative transactions in the
Securities of the Company. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Mr. T. N. Manoharan, Chairman of the Audit Committee, was
virtually present at the 76th AGM of the Company held
through Video Conferencing facility on 5th August, to address the Shareholders’ queries pertaining to Annual
Accounts of the Company. The Meetings of the Audit Committee are also attended by the
Chairman, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer,
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector), Group
Chief Financial Officer, the Statutory Auditors, the Group Chief
Internal Auditor, the Controller of Accounts, the Chief Financial
Officer of Auto and Farm Sectors and the Company Secretary. Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are
also passed by the Members. Subsequently, these
Circular Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after
the date on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by
the Members. As required under the Secretarial Standard on General
Meetings, the Chairman of the Committee or, in his absence,
any other Member of the Committee authorised by him on
his behalf shall attend the General Meeting of the Company. Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met Eight times during the year under review on 27th May, , 7th July, , 4th August, , 9th September,
, 10th November, , 21st November, , 9th February, and 14th March, . The gap between two Meetings did
not exceed one hundred and twenty days. The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Audit Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman) 27th
May, 7th
July, 4th
August, 9th
September, 10th
November, 21st
November, 9th
February, 14th
March, Hybrid VC Hybrid VC Physical VC   Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan  % of attendance at a Meeting % Attended through Video Conference  

%
Leave of Absence %  % Held
during the
Year Attended % of attendance
of a Member Physical Hybrid    %   % 
 
 %  % % % % % Attended in-person AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Reviewed Quarterly, Half yearly and Annual Standalone and Consolidated Financials of the Company prepared in accordance with the Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as specified under the Companies Act, , read with the relevant rules thereunder Q / A Held discussions with the Statutory Auditors regarding the Company’s financial statements, scope of their Reports and sought the
auditors’ judgment on the quality and applicability of the accounting principles, the reasonableness of significant judgments, the
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements and other matters as the Committee deemed necessary Q Reviewed and approved the Audit Fees and Fees payable for other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors during the year under
review A Considered and made recommendation on the Remuneration payable to the Chief Internal Auditor and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company A Reviewed the performance of the Statutory Auditors and approved their Re-Appointment as Statutory Auditors for a Second Term of (five) consecutive years and recommended the same to the Board A / E Reviewed with independent auditors, the nature and scope of the audit alongwith the review of audit engagement to ascertain
adequacy and appropriateness E MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Reviewed the Management Discussion and Analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company A Reviewed the Directors’ Responsibility Statement after making due enquiries from the Operating Management A Reviewed the internal audit findings, the action taken status and other matters concerning the internal audit function of the Company
and the Group and reviewed the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor Q / A Reviewed the utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/investment by the Company in the subsidiaries exceeding Rs. crores or
% of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower Q Reviewed and granted prior approval for transactions with related parties including material related party transactions in terms of
Regulation read with Regulation ()(zc) and Regulation ()(zb) of the Listing Regulations, approved specific arrangements/
transactions, granted omnibus approval for transactions proposed to be entered with related parties, within the maximum limit per
transaction and maximum limit in the aggregate, granted omnibus approval to cover unforeseen related party transactions and
reviewed related party transactions entered into by the Company for previous quarter pursuant to the prior and omnibus approvals
accorded by the Committee and recommended to the Board for onward recommendation to the Shareholders for approval as and
when necessary Q / A Reviewed the risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that executive Management controls risk through means of a
properly defined framework and risk management systems, etc. Q Reviewed the Audited financial statements, in particular the investments made by all unlisted subsidiary companies and all significant
transactions and arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary companies A Approved the other services proposed to be rendered by the Statutory Auditors, directly or indirectly A / E Reviewed and approved the proposed amendments in the terms of reference of the Committee including review of the report
submitted by monitoring agency for the utilization of proceeds of preferential issue or qualified institutions placement in addition to
public issue or rights issue E Noted the Material Subsidiary(ies) of the Company A Monitored and reviewed the mechanism to track the compliances under SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, and
also reviewed the compliance updates in addition to the investigations of the Whistle-blower Complaints received alongwith Report
under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, Q Considered and approved the appointment of Cost Auditors, remuneration payable to them and the Cost Audit Report and recommended
the same to the Board A Reviewed and approved amendments to Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment of the Company E Held meeting with the Representatives of the Credit Rating Agencies which have rated the Non-Convertible Debentures issued by /
long term borrowings of the Company A Reviewed compliance of Insider Trading Regulations and Systems for Internal Controls for prevention of Insider Trading A Frequency A Annually Q Quarterly E Event Based COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT B. Governance, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS with the criteria laid down, recommending to the Board their
appointment and removal and carrying out evaluation of
every Director’s performance. All Committee Members are Independent Directors including the
Chairman. The Members are Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta (Chairman
of the Committee), Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, Ms. Nisaba Godrej
and Ms. Shikha Sharma. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman,
Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
and Mr. Ruzbeh Irani, President - Group HR are permanent
invitees to the Committee. The Committee has also formulated the criteria for determining
qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a
Director and recommended to the Board a Policy relating to
the remuneration for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel
and other Employees. This policy has also been posted on
the website of the Company and can be accessed in the
Governance section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. Key Terms of Reference of the Committee: The Committee has undertaken a structured and
comprehensive succession planning program over a period
of time and has carried out a rigorous review for an orderly
Succession to the Board and the Senior Management. The Committee has been vested with the authority to,
inter alia, recommend nominations for Board Membership,
develop and recommend policies with respect to composition
of the Board commensurate with the size, nature of the
business and operations of the Company, establish criteria
for selection to the Board with respect to the competencies,
qualifications, experience, track record, integrity, establish
Director retirement policies and appropriate succession plans
and determine overall compensation policies of the Company. The Committee carries out a separate exercise to evaluate
the performance of Individual Directors. Feedback is sought
by way of structured questionnaires covering various
aspects of the Board’s functioning such as adequacy of the
composition of the Board and its Committees, Board culture,
execution and performance of specific duties, obligations and
governance. The performance evaluation is carried out based
on the responses received from the Directors. The Committee also administers the Company’s Employee
Stock Option Schemes formulated from time to time including
“Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option
Scheme – ”, “Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees
Stock Option Scheme – ” and takes appropriate decisions
in terms of the concerned Scheme(s). The performance evaluation of Independent Directors was
based on various criteria, inter alia, including attendance at
Board and Committee Meetings, skill, experience, ability to
challenge views of others in a constructive manner, knowledge
acquired with regard to the Company’s business, understanding
of industry and global trends, etc. During the year under
review, the Committee ascertained and reconfirmed that the
deployment of “questionnaire” as a methodology, is effective
for evaluation of performance of Board and Committees and
Individual Directors. The terms of reference of this Committee are aligned with
the Listing Regulations and the Act.
The coverage of “Senior Management” of the Company was
widened pursuant to an amendment to the Listing Regulations
and consequently the “Policy on Appointment of Directors
and Senior Management and Succession Planning for Orderly
Succession to the Board and the Senior Management” has
been amended. The Committee is also empowered to opine, in respect of the
services rendered by a Director in professional capacity and
whether such Director possesses requisite qualification for the
practice of the profession. As per section () of the Act
and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, the Chairman
of the Committee or, in his absence, any other Member of
the Committee authorised by him in this behalf shall attend
the General Meetings of the Company. The Chairman of the
Committee, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta was virtually present at
the 75th AGM of the Company held through Video Conferencing
facility on 5th August, . The scope of the Committee inter alia includes review of market
practices and deciding on remuneration packages applicable
to the Chairman, Managing Director, the Executive Director(s),
Presidents and other Members of Senior Management as may
be decided from time to time (including the Chief Financial
Officer and Company Secretary).
In addition to the above, the Committee’s role includes
identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors and
who may be appointed in Senior Management in accordance Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met five times during the year under review on 27th May, , 4th August, , 10th November, ,
10th February, and 14th March, . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members 27th 4th 10th 10th May, August, November, February, 14th
March, Hybrid Hybrid Hybrid Hybrid Hybrid       Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta (Chairman)
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan  Ms. Shikha Sharma   % %  Ms. Nisaba Godrej
% of attendance at a Meeting
Attended through Video Conference %  % Leave of Absence  Held
during the
Year Attended % of attendance
of a Member % % % % % Attended in-person GOVERNANCE, NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED
31ST MARCH, :
Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Finalisation of the process of evaluation and carrying out evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, Directors and
Chairman of the Company and mapping of chart / matrix of core skill/ expertise/ competencies of the Board A Approved and recommended to the Board amendments to Gift and Entertainment Policy and Code of Conduct for stakeholders E Grant of Stock Options to the Eligible Employees under the Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme – and cancellation of Stock Options in certain cases
Remuneration and Performance Pay to be paid to the Wholetime Directors
Benchmarking of remuneration of Senior Management and approved and recommended to the Board remuneration of Senior Management
Redesignation of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as “Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)” A / E
A
A / E
E Frequency A Annual E Event Based C. Stakeholders Relationship Committee
The Company’s Stakeholders Relationship Committee functions under the Chairmanship of Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, Independent
Director. The Board at its Meeting held on 28th May, had re-constituted the Stakeholders Relationship Committee and appointed
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan in place of Dr. Anish Shah. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra and Dr. Vishakha N. Desai are the other Members of the
Committee.
Mr. Narayan Shankar, Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the Company.
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The Committee meets, as and when required, to inter alia, deal with matters relating to issue of duplicate share certificates, issue
of new share certificates (including for transfer to Investor Education & Protection Fund as per the provisions of the Act and Rules
framed thereunder), resolve the grievances of security holders of the Company including complaints related to dematerialisation
of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, etc., review of measures taken for effective exercise
of voting rights by shareholders, review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of services
being rendered by the Registrar & Transfer Agent, review of various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing
the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/demand drafts/annual reports/statutory
notices by the Shareholders of the Company. With a view to expedite the process of transmission, necessary authority has been
delegated to certain officers of the Company. The Committee is authorised to approve request for transmission of shares and issue
of duplicate share certificates.
The role and terms of reference of the Committee cover the areas as contemplated under Regulation read with Part D of Schedule
II of the Listing Regulations and Section of the Act, as applicable, besides other terms as referred by the Board of Directors.
During the year under review, the terms of reference of the Committee were amended to include looking into various aspects
of matters related to all Security Holders, inter alia, covering Non-Convertible Debenture Holders and Commercial Paper Holders. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS As per section () of the Act and the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, the Chairman of the Committee or, in his
absence, any other Member of the Committee authorised by him in this behalf shall attend the General Meetings of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Haigreve Khaitan was virtually present at the 76th AGM of the Company held through Video
Conferencing facility on 5th August, .
Apart from the Meeting(s), urgent business (including approvals for issue of duplicate Share Certificates) was transacted through
Circular Resolution(s). Subsequently, these Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after the date on which the Circular
Resolution(s) is/are passed by the Members. Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met four times during the year under review on 27th May, , 4th August, , 10th November, and
9th February, . The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Stakeholders Relationship Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members Mr. Haigreve Khaitan (Chairman) 27th
May, 4th
August, 10th
November, 9th
February, Hybrid Physical Hybrid Physical    Held
during the
Year Attended % of attendance
of a Member  % Mr. Anand G. Mahindra   % Dr. Vishakha N. Desai   % Mr. Muthiah Murugappan* N.A.   % Dr. Anish Shah**  N.A. N.A. N.A. % % of attendance at a Meeting % % % %  Leave of Absence Attended through Video Conference  Attended in-person Appointed as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, . *
** Ceased as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, . * Appointed as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, .
** Ceased as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, . STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Reviewed compliances related to Share Transfer Agent activities of KFin Technologies Limited and Investor Related Compliances Q Review of Investor Grievances Q Approved issuance of new share certificate for transfer of shares to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), approved transfer
of shares to IEPF and related matters A Reviewed measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders P Reviewed various initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of
dividend warrants/ annual reports/ statutory notices by the shareholders of the Company P Reviewed adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various services being rendered by the Registrar
& Share Transfer Agent (RTA) P Noted release of shares from Mahindra & Mahindra Limited - Unclaimed Securities Suspense Account P Noted status of Legal Case(s) pertaining to shares Q Took note of status of various accounts relating to payment of investor dues Q Took note of the annual audit report submitted by the independent auditors on the annual internal audit conducted on the RTA
operations as mandated by SEBI A MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Approved issue of Duplicate Share Certificates E Status of Debentures and Commercial Papers Q Allotment of Shares pursuant to merger E Frequency A Annual Q Quarterly P Periodically E Event Based Details of Shareholders’/ Investors’ Complaints: Key Terms of Reference of the Committee: During the Financial Year ended March, , complaints were received from shareholders, all of which
have been attended/resolved to the satisfaction of the
Shareholders. As of date, there are no pending complaints
pertaining to the year under review. The Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee
is a Committee constituted by the Board with powers,
inter alia, to make contributions to Charitable and/or CSR
projects or programs to be implemented directly through
its ESOPs (Employee Social Options) programme or through
implementing partners which include a company established
under section of the Act or a registered public trust or a
registered society exempted or registered and approved under
Income Tax Act, established by the company or company
established under section of the Act or a registered trust or
a registered society established by the Central Government or
State Government or any entity established under an Act of
Parliament or a State legislature or a registered public trust
or a registered society exempted or registered and approved
and having an established track record of at least three years
in undertaking similar activities, of at least two percent of the
Company’s average net profits during the three immediately
preceding Financial Years in pursuance of its CSR Policy for
the Company’s CSR Initiatives. st Trend of Complaints and Number of Shareholders during last years:
Financial Year - - - - - Total No. of
Complaints received
and resolved
No. of Shareholders
as on 31st March ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Number of Shareholders Number of Complaints D. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The scope of functions of the Committee inter alia include,
formulation and recommendation to the Board, an Annual
Action Plan in pursuance of CSR Policy of the Company
including CSR projects or programmes that are approved
to be undertaken, manner of execution of such projects
or programmes, modalities of utilisation of funds and
implementation schedule(s), monitoring and reporting
mechanism, need and impact assessment, if any, for the
projects undertaken by the Company, recommendation of the
amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities
as enumerated in Schedule VII of the Act and also referred
to in the CSR Policy of the Company, as also to monitor the
CSR Policy from time to time, etc. Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Independent Director is the Chairperson
of the Committee. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Dr. Anish Shah,
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta and Mr. Muthiah Murugappan are
the other Members of the Committee. Out of the total
number of Members of the Committee, three Members are
Independent Directors. During the year under review, the terms of reference of the
Committee were amended pursuant to the commitment
of the Company towards sustainable business practices
and the increasing adaptability of Environment, Social and
Governance (ESG) framework by all companies. The amended
terms of reference inter alia include the following: - - - - - Non receipt of Dividend Non receipt of share certificate Others Total No. of shareholders Your Company has taken adequate measures to resolve
the complaints of the shareholders. In order to expedite
the process of redressal of shareholders’ grievances, the
Company has introduced an escalation matrix, which can
be accessed at https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
policies-and-documents. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT •	Recommend to the Board, the Company’s overall general
strategy with respect to Environment, Social and
Governance (“ESG”) matters; STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS deletions/additions/new ESG /Sustainability policies to
the Board for its approval;
•	Ensure compliance in relation to the policies created
for or linked to the key principles of the ‘National
Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and
Economic Responsibilities of Business’; •	Ensure ESG and social considerations in the Company’s
business operations and build a culture of Sustainable
Business;
•	Ensure compliance with the Sustainability initiatives
by Regulators including but not limited to Business
Responsibility Report/Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report and recommend the same to the
Board; •	Ensure in concurrence with the Risk Management
Committee that the ESG risks pertaining to the Company
are minimal and effectively managed.
The CSR Policy of your Company, in alignment with the
CSR provisions is available on the website of the Company
and can be accessed in the Governance section at the
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments. •	Monitor and ensure the effective implementation of
ESG policies of the Company and recommend changes/ Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met times during the year under review on 27th May, , 10th November, and 14th March, . The
attendance at the Meetings was as under: Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members 27th May, 10th November, 14th
March, Hybrid Hybrid Hybrid Dr. Vishakha N. Desai (Chairperson)
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra  Dr. Anish Shah  Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan  % of attendance at a Meeting % Attended through Video Conference  Leave of Absence 
 
 %  Held
during the
Year Attended % of attendance of
a Member % % % % % %
Attended in-person CSR COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, :
Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Considered and recommended to the Board, Business Responsibility Report and Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the Company
for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report of the Company A Noted the enlarged scope of the Committee which includes Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) related matters considering the
commitment of the Company towards sustainable business practices and the increasing adaptability of ESG framework by all companies. E Reviewed the Company’s Business Responsibility and sustainability Performance, the projects and programs under Corporate Social
Responsibility Projects of the Company, status of utilization of fund(s) by the Implementing Agencies for the Financial Year P Considered and approved the CSR Projects for the Financial Year and recommended the same to the Board A / E MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Considered and approved revised CSR Budget for the Financial Year and amendment to the Annual Action Plan for the Financial Year
and recommended the same to the Board A / E Considered and approved amendment in the CSR Policy of the Company and recommended the same to the Board A / E Noted the amendments and clarification issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) in the CSR Provisions from time to time E Considered and recommended to the Board Annual Action Plan of the Company for the next financial year A Noted the Status of the Impact Assessment Studies for the Projects qualifying for Impact Assessment for the Financial Year P Frequency A Annually P Periodically E Event based E. Risk Management Committee
Regulation of the Listing Regulations mandates constitution
of the Risk Management Committee. The Committee is required
to lay down the procedures to inform the Board about the risk
assessment and minimisation procedures and the Board shall be
responsible for framing, implementing and monitoring the Risk
Management Plan of the Company. The Board has constituted a
Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’). The Committee is chaired
by Mr. T. N. Manoharan. The other Members are Dr. Anish Shah,
Ms. Shikha Sharma, Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
and Mr. Haigreve Khaitan. b.	Measures for risk mitigation including systems and
processes for internal control of identified risks; and
c. Business continuity plan. .	Ensuring that appropriate methodology, processes and
systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks
associated with the business of the Company.
.	Monitoring and overseeing implementation of the risk
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy
of risk management systems. During the year, Mr. T. N. Manoharan was appointed as
Chairman of the Committee with effect from 28th May, and Dr. Anish Shah ceased to be Chairman of the Committee
with effect from that date and continues as a Member. .	Periodically reviewing the risk management policy
(at least once in two years) including by considering
the changing industry dynamics and evolving
complexity. Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The terms of the reference of RMC are wide and are in line
with the regulatory requirements of the Listing Regulations
and inter alia include: .	Keeping the Board of Directors informed about the
nature and content of its discussions, recommendations
and actions to be taken. .	Formulation of a detailed risk management policy which
shall include:
a.	Framework for identification of internal and external
risks specifically faced by the listed entity, in particular
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber
security risks or any other risk as may be determined
by RMC; .	Reviewing the appointment, removal and terms of
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any).
Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are also
passed by the Members. Subsequently, these Circular
Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after the date
on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by the
Members. Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS The Committee met thrice during the year under review on 4th August, , 10th November, and 14th March, . The
attendance at the Meetings was as under: Risk Management Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members 4th
August, 10th
November, 14th
March, Held
during the
Year Attended % of attendance of
a Member Hybrid Physical Hybrid Mr. T. N. Manoharan* (Chairman)    % Dr. Anish Shah**    % Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar    %  % % % Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta   Mr. Haigreve Khaitan    % of attendance at a Meeting % % % Attended through Video Conference  Leave of Absence  Attended in-person Appointed as Chairman of the Committee with effect from 28th May, . *
** Ceased to be Chairman of the Committee with effect from 28th May, and continues to be a Member. RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Considered and approved the appointment and the terms of remuneration of Chief Risk Officer of the Company E Reviewed various Risks emerging from Russia & Ukraine war & China -Taiwan Escalation - Impact on AFS, Supplies, Business entity risk
scorecard, Portfolio risk scorecard, Discussion on unknown risks, Macro-economic & Global Scenario, frontier risk, etc. E Reviewed the Risk Management Policy (Enterprises Risk Management Policy) of the Company and Proposed Enterprises Risk
Management framework of the Company and suggested changes to be incorporated therein E Reviewed the Risk Certificate covering risk management measures and controls and made recommendation to the Audit Committee
and the Board P Reviewed the Risk Management Report, Risk Mitigation Measures as prescribed under the Risk Management Policy alongwith Extreme
Risks their impact, likelihood and exposure and presented the same to the Audit Committee and the Board P Reviewed the risks for the financial year and presented the same to the Audit Committee and the Board A / P Frequency A Annually P Periodically E Event based F. Strategic Investment Committee (A voluntary initiative of your Company)
The Strategic Investment Committee is a voluntary Committee of your Company and Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman of
the Committee. Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Mr. T. N. Manoharan, Ms. Shikha Sharma and Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma are other Members
of the Committee. Apart from the Committee Members, the Committee Meetings are also invariably attended by the other
Directors as Invitees. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
This Committee is constituted by the Board with powers, inter alia, to evaluate, scrutinize and consider all proposals for funding
including but not limited to making Investment in, providing Loan to, providing Guarantee for any Subsidiary, Associate, Joint
Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate, business acquisitions where Cumulative exposure in such entity
is above the specified threshold and make appropriate recommendations to the Board, Operation reviews for such Subsidiary,
Associate, Joint Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate, Evaluate, scrutinise and approve disinvestments
(total or partial) / exit from such Subsidiary, Associate, Joint Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate,
approve Merger or De-Merger or Arrangement within Group companies as specified, approve entry into new industries (greenfield,
acquisition of majority stake or path to majority), etc.
Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are also passed by the Members. Subsequently, these Resolution(s) are noted in
the Meeting held after the date on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by the Members. Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met five times during the year under review on 27th May, , 4th August, , 10th November, ,
9th February, and 14th March, . The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Strategic Investment Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode
Name of the Members 27th
May, Hybrid 4th
August, Hybrid Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (Chairman)  Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta  Mr. T. N. Manoharan  10th
November, Hybrid    Ms. Shikha Sharma Attended through Video Conference %  % Leave of Absence  14th
March, Hybrid   Held
during
the year Attended % of attendance
of a Member %  %  % % %   
  % % % Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
% of attendance at a Meeting 9th
February, Physical Attended in-person STRATEGIC INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Considered, reviewed and approved significant investments/funding to be made by the Company and taking note of outstanding debt,
if any, and recommended the same to the Board Q / E Noted business updates from various subsidiaries, restructuring within certain group companies, approved shares exchange/swap,
dilution of stake, transfer of Assets and/or business/hiving off, entering into new line of business, etc. and made suitable recommendation
to the Board as and when required Q / E Monitored and reviewed the existing investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and other group entities including overseeing the
performance of various sectors/companies Q / P Considered and reviewed proposed divestments in certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and other group entities and made suitable
recommendations to the Board E Frequency Q Quarterly P Periodically E Event based COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE V. SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Regulation of the Listing Regulations defines a “material
subsidiary” to mean a subsidiary, whose income or net worth
exceeds ten percent of the consolidated income or net
worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in
the immediately preceding accounting year.
Under this definition, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited (MMFSL) (Listed) is a material subsidiary
of the Company, formed on 1st January, at Mumbai.
Further, M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, Chartered Accountants
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 117365W) and M/s. Mukund
M. Chitale & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm
Registration No. 106655W) are the Joint Statutory Auditors
of MMFSL, appointed for a period of (two) consecutive years,
to hold office from conclusion of the 32nd AGM of MMFSL
held on 28th July, till conclusion of the 34th AGM of
MMFSL to be held in the year .
The subsidiaries of the Company function independently, with
an adequately empowered Board of Directors and adequate
resources. For more effective governance, the minutes of
Board Meetings of subsidiaries of the Company are placed
before the Board of Directors of the Company for their
review at every quarterly Meeting.
In addition to the above, Regulation of the Listing
Regulations requires that at least one Independent Director
on the Board of Directors of the listed entity shall be a
Director on the Board of Directors of an unlisted material
subsidiary, whether incorporated in India or not. For the
purpose of this provision, material subsidiary means a
subsidiary, whose income or net worth exceeds twenty
percent of the consolidated income or net worth respectively,
of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately
preceding accounting year.
There is no Subsidiary which falls under this definition of
unlisted material subsidiary for the financial year ended
31st March, .
The other requirements of Regulation of the Listing
Regulations with regard to Corporate Governance
requirements for Subsidiary Companies have been complied
with. VI. DISCLOSURES
A. Policy
for
subsidiaries determining ‘material’ Your Company has formulated a Policy for determining
‘Material’ Subsidiaries as defined in Regulation of the Listing
Regulations. This Policy has been posted on the website of the BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Company and can be accessed in the Governance section at the
Web-link https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policiesand-documents. B. Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with
Related Party Transactions Your Company has formulated a Policy on Materiality of
and Dealing with Related Party Transactions (“RPT Policy”)
which specifies the manner of entering into related party
transactions. Subsequent to the year end, the RPT Policy was
reviewed and amended with a view to make it more elaborate
specifically in view of the changes in the coverage of the
related party transactions with effect from 1st April, .
The updated RPT Policy has also been posted on the website
of the Company and can be accessed in the Governance
section at the Web-link https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/policies-and-documents. C. Disclosure of Transactions with Related
Parties
During the Financial Year -, there were no materially
significant transactions or arrangements entered into between
the Company and its Promoters, Directors or their Relatives
or the Management, Subsidiaries, etc. that may have potential
conflict with the interests of the Company at large. Further,
details of related party transactions are presented in Note
No. to Annual Accounts in the Annual Report.
In addition to the above and as required under the Listing
Regulations, the Company is in compliance with the
Accounting Standards on related party disclosures, has been
submitting disclosures of related party transactions to the
Stock Exchanges in the prescribed format from time to time
and also publishing it on the website of the Company. D. 
Disclosure of Accounting Treatment in
preparation of Financial Statements
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS“) as per the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as
amended and notified under section of the Act and
other relevant provisions of the Act. E. 
Code for Prevention of Insider Trading
Practices
The Company has formulated and adopted the ‘Code of
Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished
Price Sensitive Information’ which, inter alia, includes Policy
for determination of ‘Legitimate Purpose’ and ‘Code of
Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading in Securities of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited’ (“M&M Code of Conduct”) in
compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, (“Insider
Trading Regulations”).
M&M Code of Conduct has been formulated to regulate,
monitor and ensure reporting of trading by the Designated
Persons and their immediate relatives towards achieving
compliance with the Insider Trading Regulations and is
designed to maintain the highest ethical standards of trading
in Securities of the Company by persons to whom it is
applicable. The Code lays down Guidelines, which advise them
on procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made, while
dealing with securities of the Company and caution them of
the consequences of violations. Subsequent to the year end,
the M&M Code of Conduct was amended to inter alia align it
with the Insider Trading Regulations and to restrict trading in
Derivative transactions in the Securities of the Company. F. Policy and procedure for inquiry in case of leak/suspected leak of Unpublished Price
Sensitive Information The Company has formulated the ‘Policy and procedure
for inquiry in case of leak / suspected leak of Unpublished
Price Sensitive Information’ (’UPSI’). The Policy is formulated
to maintain ethical standards in dealing with sensitive
information of the Company by persons who have access to
UPSI. The rationale of the Policy is to strengthen the internal
control systems to ensure that UPSI is not communicated
to any person except in accordance with the Insider Trading
Regulations. The Policy also provides an investigation
procedure in case of leak/suspected leak of UPSI. G. Whistle-blower Policy
The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Act and the
Rules prescribed thereunder and the Listing Regulations is
implemented through the Code of Conduct, Whistle-blower and
other Governance Policies and the Vigil Mechanism frameworks.
The Company has taken adequate measures to create
awareness amongst its employees on the Code of Conduct
and Governance Policies through regular face to face/
E‑learning sessions. The Company has provided a third-party
whistleblowing helpline service through an external service
provider. The Ethics helpline service includes toll free number,
web portal access and e-mail facilities. This helpline serves
as platform under vigil mechanism for all stakeholders to
raise any concerns on unethical behaviour and provided by
Convercent, a Global service provider.
• Helpline No: The toll-free helpline number is available in English and
Multiple Languages.
•	Url: https://ethics.mahindra.com/ is available in prominent
languages (Tamil, Telugu, Spanish, English, Hindi). Direct complaints can also be raised with the Chairman of
the Audit Committee through the third-party web portal
at the link mentioned above or by sending an email to
chairpersonofauditcommittee@mahindra.com or by sending a
letter to the below address:
Chairperson of the Audit Committee,
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
P. K. Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai – .
The Whistle-blower Policy has an established reporting
mechanism for Stakeholders to report concerns about
unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or violation
of the Code, including insider trading violations and reporting
instances of leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information
by the employees. Under the Vigil Mechanism, the employees
are encouraged to voice their concerns and all stakeholders
have been provided access to the Audit Committee through
the Chairperson. No personnel have been denied access to the
Audit Committee. The Policy provides for adequate safeguards
against victimization of persons who use the mechanism.
The Whistle-blower Policy was updated during the year, the
details of which may be referred to in the Board’s Report.
During the course of the year the Vigil framework and
systems for timely and conclusive resolution of compliance
concerns have been standardized and further strengthened.
The Whistle-blower Policy of the Company is available on
the website of the Company and can be accessed in the
Governance section at the Web-link https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. VII. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
The Company recognizes the importance of two-way
communication with Shareholders and of giving a balanced
reporting of results and progress. Full and timely disclosure
of information regarding the Company’s financial position
and performance is an important part of your Company’s
corporate governance ethos.
Your Company follows a robust process of communicating
with its stakeholders, security holders and investors through
multiple channels of communications such as dissemination
of information on the website of the Stock Exchanges,
Press Releases, the Annual Reports and uploading relevant
information on its website. Financial Results: The unaudited quarterly results are announced within fortyfive days of the close of each quarter, other than the last
quarter. The audited annual results are announced within
sixty days from the end of the financial year as required
under the Listing Regulations. The aforesaid financial results
are announced to the Stock Exchanges within the statutory
time period from the conclusion of the Board Meeting(s) at
which these are considered and approved. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Other Information: Analyst/Institutional Investors Presentations Your Company discloses to the Stock Exchanges, all
information required to be disclosed under Regulation read with Part ‘A’ and Part ‘B’ of Schedule III of the Listing
Regulations including material information having a bearing
on the performance/ operations of the Company and
other price sensitive information. All information is filed
electronically on the online portal of BSE Limited – Corporate
Compliance & Listing Centre (BSE Listing Centre) and on
the online portals of National Stock Exchange of India
Limited – NSE’s Electronic Application Processing System
(NEAPS). The information to the Stock Exchanges located
outside India is filed through electronic means or other
permissible means. The Company hosts calls with institutional investors/analyst
post quarterly/half-yearly and the audited financial results
are announced and on request. Presentations are also made
to international and domestic institutional investors and
analysts. These presentations and other disclosures which
are required to be disseminated are filed electronically with
the Stock Exchanges as well as uploaded on the Company’s
website viz.: https://www.mahindra.com and as per the
Archival Policy of the Company, would be hosted on the
website for a minimum period of five years from the date of
respective disclosures. In addition to the above, the Company
also uploads transcripts of post earnings/quarterly calls and
Audio Visual recordings on the website of the Company. The details of Investors/Analyst interactions held during the year under review are as follows:
Investors/Analyst Interactions - FY -
Particulars One on
one /Group
Interactions* Conferences**
/Non-Deal
Roadshows Company
events*** Keynote address
at Investor
Forums by Senior
Management Total Number of Meetings
Number of Hours spent *
**
*** Includes Plant/R&D centre visit, New Product launch, Dealer visit/test drive, specific events, etc. Conferences
Includes quarterly earnings calls/analyst meet, specific events, etc. The Annual Report of the Company, the quarterly/halfyearly and the audited financial statements and the official
news releases of the Company are also disseminated on
the Company’s website. The quarterly, half-yearly and
yearly results are also published in Free Press Journal /
Business Standard and Sakal which are national and local
dailies respectively. These are not sent individually to the
Shareholders. FAQs for the Shareholders The Investor Relations page of the Company’s website
provides more than Frequently Asked Questions on
various topics related to transfers and transmissions of
shares, dematerialisation, nomination, change of address,
loss of share certificates, dividend and sub-division of share
certificates. In addition, various downloadable forms required
to be executed by the Shareholders have also been provided
on the website of the Company viz. https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/reports. Investor Services Web-based Query Redressal System Members may utilise the facility extended by the Registrar
and Transfer Agent for redressal of queries, by visiting https://
ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/InvestorGrievance.aspx. Investors can submit their query in the option provided
on the above website, which would generate a reference
number. For accessing the status / response to the query
submitted, the grievance reference number can be used at
the option “Track your query” at the left-hand corner of
above website. Investors can continue to put an additional
query, if any, relating to the grievance till they get a
satisfactory reply.
Investors can provide their feedback on the services provided
by the Company and its Registrar and Transfer Agent by
filling the Shareholder Satisfaction Survey form available
in Investor Relations page on website of the Company at
the web link: https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
reports. KPRISM Mobile service application by KFintech Members are requested to note that KFin Technologies
Limited (KFintech) has a mobile application - KPRISM and
a website https://kprism.kfintech.com for online service to
Members.
Members can download the mobile application from play store,
register themselves (one time) for availing host of services
viz., view of consolidated portfolio serviced by KFintech,
Dividend status, request for change of address, change/ MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - update Bank Mandate. Through the Mobile app, members can
download Annual Reports, standard forms and keep track
of upcoming General Meetings and dividend disbursement.
In addition, members can also visit the Investor Service
Center (ISC) webpage, https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/
isc/default.aspx and get benefitted from the list of services
that can be executed from the page like raising or tracking a
query, upload tax exemptions forms, view the Demat / Remat
request, check dividend status and download required ISR
forms and check KYC status for Physical Folios.
The mobile application would
be available for download from
Android Play Store. The Members
may alternatively visit the link
https://kprism.kfintech.com/app/ to
download the mobile application
or scan the QR Code: VIII. GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Pursuant to General Circular No. / issued by Ministry
of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) dated 5th May, read together
with MCA General Circular Nos. & / dated
8th April, and 13th April, respectively read with
MCA General Circular No. / dated 28th December,
, companies whose AGMs are due in the Year are
allowed to conduct their AGM through video conferencing
(VC) or other audio visual means (OAVM) on or before
30th September, . Accordingly, your Company will be
conducting the AGM through VC/ OAVM facility. Members
can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode minutes before
the scheduled time of the commencement of the Meeting
by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice of AGM
and this mode will be available throughout the proceedings
of the AGM.
In addition to conducting the AGM through VC/OAVM, the
Company would also be providing one-way live webcast
of the proceedings of the AGM. Members who are entitled
to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of
AGM by logging on the e-meetings website of KFintech at
https://emeetings.kfintech.com using their secure login
credentials. During the live AGM, Members may post their queries in
the message box provided on the screen or may submit
questions in advance on the email ID of the Company
investors@mahindra.com.
In case of any query and/or help, in respect of
attending AGM through VC/OAVM, Members may Visit
https://emeetings.kfintech.com
(KFintech
Website)
or
contact at investors@mahindra.com or Ms. Sheetal Doba,
Manager - Corporate Registry, KFintech at Selenium,
Tower B, Plot No. -, Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Hyderabad, Telangana – or
at the email ID evoting@kfintech.com or on phone No.:
- or call KFintech’s toll free No.:
-- for any further clarifications.
. 77th Annual General Meeting
Date
:
4th August, Day :
Friday
Time
:
: p.m. (IST)
Venue :	Meeting through VC/OAVM . Financial Year of the Company The financial year covers the period from 1st April to
31st March.
. Date of Book Closure and Dividend Payment Date Book Closure for Dividend will be from Saturday,
15th July, to Friday, 4th August, , both days
inclusive and the Dividend would be paid/dispatched
after 4th August, .
.	Listing of Ordinary (Equity) Shares, Debentures on
Stock Exchanges and Stock Code Your Company’s Ordinary (Equity) Shares are listed
on BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange
of India Limited (NSE). The Global Depository Receipts
(GDRs) of your Company are listed on the Luxembourg
Stock Exchange and are also admitted for trading on
International Order Book (IOB) of the London Stock
Exchange. The requisite listing fees have been paid in full
to all these Stock Exchanges. The Company’s privately placed Non-Convertible
Debentures (NCDs) are listed on the Debt Segment
of BSE. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ordinary (Equity) Shares and GDRs:
Name and Address of the
Exchanges Type of Security/
Scrip Code BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street, Fort,
Mumbai – . Ordinary (Equity)
Shares/ National Stock Exchange of India
Limited,
Exchange Plaza, C-, Block G,
Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai – . Ordinary (Equity)
Shares/M&M Bourse de Luxembourg
Society de la Bourse de Luxembourg,
Societe Anonyme/R.C.B. ,
B.P. , L-, Luxembourg. Global Depository
Receipts (GDRs) London Stock Exchange Plc,
, Paternoster Square,
London – EC4M 7LS. GDRs/MHID STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs)
International
Securities
Identification
Number (ISIN) INE101A01026 International
Securities
Identification
Number (ISIN) Name and Address of the
Exchanges Type of Security/
Scrip Code BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street,
Fort, Mumbai – . Non-Convertible
Debentures/
/Scrip ID:
955MML2063 INE101A08070 Non-Convertible
Debentures/
/Scrip ID:
757MML26 INE101A08088 Non-Convertible
Debentures//
Scrip ID: 665MML23 INE101A08096* Non-Convertible
Debentures/
/Scrip ID:
678MML23 INE101A08104* Non-Convertible
Debentures/
/Scrip ID:
619MML25 INE101A08112# USY541641194 * Subsequent to the year end, the NCDs having ISIN: INE101A08096 and
INE101A08104 were redeemed on 20th April, and 24th April, respectively upon Maturity. The Company has on 4th May, received Notices from all the Holders
for this series of NCDs exercising Put Option to redeem the NCDs as per
the terms and conditions of the issue. These NCDs would be redeemed
on 8th June, (being Put Option date) prior to Maturity along with
accrued Interest. # .	List of all Credit Ratings obtained by the Company along with revisions for the FY - The credit ratings obtained by the Company along with revisions, if any, thereto during the Financial Year -, for all
the debt instruments, fixed deposit programme, any scheme or proposal of the Company involving mobilisation of funds, in
India or abroad are given below:
Instrument Details Rating(s)
CARE CRISIL ICRA India Ratings & Research Non-Convertible Debentures – CRISIL AAA/Stable [ICRA] AAA (Stable) IND AAA/Stable Bank Facilities – Long Term CARE AAA; Stable CRISIL AAA/Stable [ICRA] AAA (Stable) IND AAA/Stable Bank Facilities – Short Term CARE A1+ CRISIL A1+ [ICRA] A1+ IND A1+ Commercial Paper (CP) – CRISIL A1+ – – During the year under review, credit ratings obtained by the Company for the Commercial Paper (“CP”) have been fully
withdrawn by ICRA on account of nil outstanding (due to maturity).
The above ratings have been assigned/ affirmed/ re-affirmed by the Credit Rating Agencies for the financial year ended
31st March .
. Corporate Identity Number: L65990MH1945PLC004558 . Registered Office Address
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Stock Price Data:
Equity Shares
National Stock Exchange
of India Limited BSE Limited Month GDRs GDRs Luxembourg Stock
Exchange London Stock Exchange High Low High Low High* Low* High Low Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. US$ US$ US$ US$ April, . . . . . . . . May, ,. . ,. . . . . . June, ,. . ,. . . . . . July, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . August, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . September, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . October, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . November, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . December, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . January, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . February, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . March, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . * Indicative
. Stock Performance
The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the S&P BSE Sensitive Index is given in the chart below: S&P BSE Sensex M&M ON BSE Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Closing Price on Last Trading day of the Month Jan Feb Mar S&P BSE SENSEX M&M on BSE COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the Nifty Index is given in the chart below: M&M on NSE NSE Nifty M&M ON NSE NSE Nifty Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Closing Price on Last Trading day of the Month . Registrar and Transfer Agents KFin Technologies Limited
(Formerly known as KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Unit: Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. -, Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi,
Telangana - , India
Tel. No.
: + Email
: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website
: www.kfintech.com
Toll Free No. : . Share Transfer System Trading in Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company through recognized Stock Exchanges is permitted only in dematerialised
form. The Stakeholders Relationship Committee meets as and when required to, inter alia, consider the issue of duplicate share
certificates and attend to Shareholders’ grievances, etc. Pursuant to Regulation of Listing Regulations, no requests for effecting transfer of securities have been processed
unless the securities are held in the dematerialised form with the depository with effect from 1st April, . However,
this restriction shall not be applicable to request received for effecting transmission or transposition of physical shares.
Further, SEBI has mandated that securities shall be issued only in dematerialized mode while processing duplicate/unclaimed
suspense/ renewal / exchange / endorsement /sub-division/ consolidation/ transmission/transposition service requests
received from physical securities holders. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - SEBI has also mandated furnishing of PAN, contact details, bank account details and nomination by holders of physical
securities. Further, SEBI has also directed RTAs to freeze folios wherein PAN, KYC details and Nomination are not available
on or after 1st October, . The shareholders are requested to update their details with Company/RTA by submitting form
ISR which is available on website of the Company viz. https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/reports. The Shareholders holding shares in physical form are requested to get their shares dematerialised at the earliest to avoid any
inconvenience in future while transferring the shares. Shareholders are accordingly requested to get in touch with any Depository
Participant having registration with SEBI to open a Demat account to seek guidance in the demat procedure. The Shareholders may also visit website of depositories viz. National Securities Depository Limited viz. https://nsdl.co.in/faqs/faq.php
or Central Depository Services (India) Limited viz. https://www.cdslindia.com/Investors/open-demat.html for further understanding
of the demat procedure.
. Distribution of Shareholding as on 31st March, Number of Shares held Number of Shareholders* Number of Shares held % of Shareholding - ,, ,,, . - , ,,, . -, , ,, . ,-, , ,,, . ,-, , ,,, . ,-, ,,, . ,-, ,, . ,-, ,, . ,-, ,, . ,-,, ,,, . ,, and above ,,,, . ,, ,,,, . Total
* Without consolidating the folios on the basis of PAN . Category-wise shareholding as of 31st March, .% Insurance Companies .% Individual Resident shareholders .% Promoters and Promoter Group .% Others .% Mutual Funds .% Foreign Portfolio Investors
(including FIIs & FPC's) .%
.% GDR Holders Employee Beneﬁt Trusts COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE .	Shareholders holding more than % of the shares as
on 31st March, The details of Public shareholders holding more than %
(PAN-based) of the equity as on 31st March, are as
follows:
Name of the Shareholders % of Shareholding Life Insurance Corporation of India No. of shares held .% ,,, SBI Nifty ETF .% ,,, First Sentier Investors ICVC Stewart Investors Asia Pacific Leaders
Sustainability Fund .% ,,, JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA .% ,,, HDFC Trustee Company Limited HDFC Flexi Cap Fund .% ,,, Government of Singapore .% ,,, ICICI Prudential Balanced
Advantage Fund .% ,,, Government Pension Fund Global .% ,,, Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
A/C Axis Mutual Fund .% ,,, NPS Trust A/C - HDFC Pension
Management Company Limited .% ,,, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
Company Limited .% ,,, Kuwait Investment Authority Fund .% ,,, UTI - Nifty Exchange Traded Fund .% ,,, Vanguard Emerging Markets
Stock Index Fund, A SERI .% ,,, . Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity .% of the paid-up Ordinary (Equity) Share Capital
of your Company is held in a dematerialised form with
National Securities Depository Limited and Central
Depository Services (India) Limited as on 31st March,
. The market lot of the Share of your Company is
one Share, as the trading in the Equity Share of your
Company is permitted only in dematerialised form. The
Non-Promoters’ holding as on 31st March, is around
.% and the stock is highly liquid. .% .% .% .% Dematerialized Physical .% .% BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS .	Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible
Instruments, Conversion date and likely impact on
Equity ,,, GDRs constituting .% of the paidup Equity Share Capital were outstanding as on
31st March, . Since the underlying Ordinary
(Equity) Shares represented by GDRs have been
allotted in full, the outstanding GDRs have no
impact on the Equity of the Company. There are no
other convertible instruments outstanding as on
31st March, .
.	
Commodity price risk or Foreign Exchange Risk &
hedging activities The Commodity prices in the Financial Year - were
volatile. In the first quarter steel prices rose sharply due
to supply concerns caused by Russia-Ukraine conflict.
However, from June onwards, prices softened on
account of easing supply concerns and weak economic
outlook due to interest rate increases by major Central
Banks. Additionally, there was pressure on Indian steel
prices due to levy of export duties on key raw materials
and products. Subsequently, from December, ,
onwards, prices firmed up due to expectations of demand
growth driven by withdrawal of zero-Covid policy by
Chinese Government and removal of export duties by
Indian Government. Your Company stayed focused on
cost reduction through measures like VA/VE, negotiation
with suppliers, long term price contracting, etc. Your Company continues to watch the market situation
closely and continues to focus on mitigating commodity
price volatility through “Commodity Risk Management”.
Hedging of currencies and commodities are being
governed in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Risk
Management Policy and Commodity Risk Management
Policy, approved by the Board of Directors of your
Company. The details of Foreign Exchange hedging activities
undertaken by the Company are disclosed in Note No. to the Annual Accounts of the Annual Report. Disclosures regarding commodity price risk and hedging
activities, the details of exposure of the Company to
material commodities and risks faced by it throughout
the year as mandated by Regulation () read with
clause (n) of Part C of Schedule V of the Listing
Regulations and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P// dated 15th November, ,
are as follows:
(a)	Total exposure of the listed entity to commodities in
INR: Rs. , crores MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - (b)	Exposure of the listed entity to various commodities: Commodity Name Exposure towards
the particular
commodity
(Rs crores)* F23 Exposure in
Quantity terms
towards the particular
commodity (tons)# % of such exposure hedged through commodity
derivatives
Domestic market
OTC Exchange International market
(LME)
OTC Total Exchange Flat Steel (Sheet Metal) , ,, Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Casting , ,, Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Alloy Steel (Forging) , ,, Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil *
# As per average prices of FY23
As per Actual F23 Volumes (c)	Commodity risks faced by the listed entity during
the year and how they have been managed: The commodity risks on above commodities are
mitigated through close monitoring of commodity
movements and mitigation measures like value
engineering yielding significant cost reduction.
. Plant Locations Your Company’s manufacturing facilities are located at
Kandivali, Nashik, Igatpuri, Nagpur, Chakan, Zaheerabad,
Jaipur, Rudrapur, Haridwar, Mohali, Pithampur and
Bengaluru.
. Address for correspondence Shareholders may correspond with the Registrar and
Transfer Agents at:
KFin Technologies Limited (Formerly known as KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Unit: Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. -,
Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi,
Telangana - , India.
Tel. No.
Email
Website
Toll Free No. : + : einward.ris@kfintech.com
: www.kfintech.com
: New Delhi:
KFin Technologies Limited, New Delhi House, Barakhamba Road,
New Delhi - . Bengaluru:
KFin Technologies Limited,
No. , Puttanna Road,
Basavanagudi,
Bengaluru - . Kolkata:
KFin Technologies Limited,
/ Russel Street, 4th Floor,
Kankaria Centre,
Kolkata - . Chennai:
KFin Technologies Limited,
9th Floor, Capital Towers,
, Kodambakkam High Road,
Nungambakkam,
Chennai - . Your Company has also designated investors@mahindra.com
as an exclusive email ID for Investors for the purpose of
registering complaints and the same has been displayed
on the Company’s website. KFin Technologies Limited
also acts as Registrar and Transfer Agents for the Listed
Non-Convertible Debentures of the Company. Security holders would have to correspond with the
respective Depository Participants for Securities held in
demateralised form for transfer/transmission of Shares,
change of Address, change in Bank details, etc. For all investor related matters, the Company Secretary &
Compliance Officer can also be contacted at: for all matters relating to transmission/ dematerialisation of
shares, payment of dividend and any other query relating to
Equity Shares of your Company. Mahindra Towers,
2nd Floor, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
Worli, Mumbai - .
Tel. No. : + / Email: investors@mahindra.com Your Company can also be visited at its website:
https://www.mahindra.com. 
Other Service Centers of KFin Technologies Limited
for investors: .	
Name and Address
Debenture Trustee Mumbai:
KFin Technologies Limited,
/, Ground Floor,
Crossely House, Near BSE
(Bombay Stock Exchange),
Next to Union Bank, Fort,
Mumbai - . Pune:
KFin Technologies Limited,
Office # -, second
floor, Kamla Arcade,
JM Road, Opposite
Balgandharva, Shivaji Nagar,
Pune - . for correspondence Axis Trustee Services Limited
The Ruby, 2nd Floor,
SW, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Dadar West,
Mumbai - .
Tel. No. : + E-mail
:	debenturetrustee@axistrustee.in
complaints@axistrustee.in with MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE .	
Disclosures with respect to Demat
Account/Unclaimed Suspense Account: Suspense .	
Unclaimed Dividend and shares transferred to
Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) In terms of Regulation of the Listing Regulations,
the Company reports the following details in respect of
equity shares lying in the suspense account: In accordance with the provisions of sections and of the Act and Investor Education and Protection
Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, (“IEPF Rules”), dividends which remain unpaid or
unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date
of transfer to the Unpaid Dividend Account shall be
transferred by the Company to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”). COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT Number of
Shareholders Number
of Equity
Shares Aggregate Number of Shareholders and the
outstanding shares in the Suspense Account
lying as on 1st April, , ,, Less: Number of Shareholders whose
shares were transferred from suspense
account during the year , Aggregate number of Shareholders and
the outstanding shares in the suspense
account lying as on 31st March, , ,, Particulars The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account
shall remain frozen till the rightful owners claim the
shares. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Particulars CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS The IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer all shares
in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed
for seven consecutive years or more in the name of IEPF.
The Members whose dividend/ shares are transferred to
the IEPF Authority can claim their shares/dividend from the
IEPF Authority following the procedure prescribed in the
IEPF Rules. In accordance with the said IEPF Rules and its
amendments, the Company had sent notices to all the
Shareholders whose shares were due for transfer to the
IEPF Authority and simultaneously published newspaper
advertisement.
 e details of Dividend remitted to IEPF during the
Th
year: .	
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Management Discussion and Analysis Report forms part
of this Annual Report.
. Details of non-compliance, etc.
Your Company has complied with all the requirements
of regulatory authorities. During the last three years,
there were no instances of non-compliance by the
Company and no penalty or strictures were imposed on
the Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any
statutory authority, on any matter related to the capital
markets. The Company has also complied with the
requirements of Corporate Governance Report of Paras
() to () mentioned in Part ‘C’ of Schedule V of the
Listing Regulations and disclosed necessary information
as specified in Regulation to and Regulation
() (b) to (i) and (t) of the Listing Regulations in the
respective places in this Report. STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS * Financial Year Dividend
declared on Amount
transferred to
IEPF
(in Rs.) Date of transfer to
IEPF - 7th August, ,,,. 26th September, -* 5th August, ,,,. 8th August, Dividend on shares which are transferred to IEPF. . Shares transferred/ credited to IEPF During the year -, the Company transferred
,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares to IEPF Authority
corresponding to unclaimed dividend for the year . The IEPF Authority holds ,, Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company as on 31st March, . Pursuant to IEPF Rules, given below are the details of
Ordinary (Equity) Shares transferred to and released from
IEPF Authority:
Number of shares transferred
to / released from IEPF Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,, Bonus shares credited to IEPF on -- ,, Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, ,, Transferred to IEPF during the year -
Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, ,
,, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Particulars Number of shares transferred
to / released from IEPF Transferred to IEPF during the year - , Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, ,, Transferred to IEPF on 8th April, Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 8th April, ,, Transferred to IEPF during the year - , Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, ,, Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,, Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, ,, Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,, Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, ,, The voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen until the rightful owner claims the shares. The Company has appointed a Nodal Officer under the provisions of IEPF Rules, the details of which are available on the
website of the Company https://www.mahindra.com/contact-us. Further, the Company has also appointed Deputy Nodal Officers to assist the Nodal Officer to, inter alia, verify the claim(s)
and co-ordinate with the IEPF Authority. The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the Company as on 31st March, on the Company’s website at the web link: https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/regulatory-filings and on the website
of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs at https://www.iepf.gov.in/content/iepf/global/master/Home/Home.html. The following table provides dates on which unclaimed dividend and their corresponding shares would become liable to be
transferred to the IEPF:
Date of declaration of dividend Due date for transfer to IEPF Amount (Rs.)
(As on 31st March, ) - 10th August, 9th September, ,,,. - 4th August, 3rd September, ,,,. - 7th August, 6th September, ,,,. - 7th August, 6th September, ,,,. - 7th August, 7th September, ,,. - August, September, ,,,. - 5th August, 6th September, ,,,. Year th th COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES
. Compliance with Mandatory requirements Your Company has complied with all the mandatory
requirements of the Listing Regulations relating to
Corporate Governance.
. Compliance with Non-mandatory requirements:
(a) Separate posts of Chairman and CEO 	Your Company has separate posts of Chairman and CEO.
Whilst Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman, Dr. Anish
Shah is the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.
(b) Office for Non-Executive Chairman 	Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman of the Company is
entitled to maintain a full- fledged office including staff,
appropriate security, etc., the expense of which is borne
by the Company.
(c) Unmodified Audit Opinion 	During the year under review, there is no audit
qualification in your Company’s standalone financial
statements. Your Company continues to adopt best
practices to ensure regime of financial statements
with unmodified audit qualifications.
.	Details of utilisation of funds of Preferential Allotment/
QIP The Company has not raised funds through Preferential
Allotment/QIP during the year under review.
.	Total fees for all services paid to the Statutory Auditors
by the Company and its Subsidiaries for the Financial
Year - Total fees paid by the Company and its Subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis, to the Statutory Auditor viz. B S R &
Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, Firm Registration No.
101248W/W- and all entities in the network firm/
network entity of which the Statutory Auditors is a part, are
as follows:
(Rs. in Crores) Particulars Amount Audit Fees (Including Limited Review Fees) . Other Services . Reimbursement of expenses . Total . .	
Disclosure in relation to recommendation made by
any Committee which was not accepted by the Board: During the year under review, there were no such
recommendations made by any Committee of the Board
that were mandatorily required and not accepted by the
Board.
.	Certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
regarding Non-Debarment and Non-Disqualification
of Directors A certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
certifying that none of the Directors on the Board of the BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Company as on 31st March, have been debarred
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing
as Director of companies by the Board/ Ministry of
Corporate Affairs or any such Statutory Authority, is
annexed at the end of this Report.
.	
Disclosure in relation to the Sexual Harassment
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, for the Financial
Year - is as under: (a)	Number of complaints filed during
the financial year under review
:
(b)	Number of complaints disposed of
during the financial year under review : (c)	Number of complaints pending as
on end of the financial year : .	Particulars of loans/advances/investments pursuant
to Para A of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations: The particulars of loans/advances/investments required
to be disclosed pursuant to Para A of Schedule V of
the Listing Regulations are furnished separately in the
Board’s Report and forms part of this Annual Report.
.	
Disclosure of Loans and advances in the nature
of loans to firms/companies in which directors are
interested by name and amount: The Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/
companies in which directors are interested are disclosed
separately in the Board’s Report and forms part of this
Annual Report.
. Directors and Officers Liability Insurance: 
As per the provisions of the Act and in compliance
with Regulation () of the Listing Regulations, the
Company has taken a Directors and Officers Liability
Insurance (D&O) on behalf of all Directors including
Independent Directors and Officers of the Company
for indemnifying any of them against any personal
liability coming onto them whilst discharging fiduciary
responsibilites in relation to the Company.
.	
Shareholding of Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company as on 31st March, :
The Shareholding of Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”)
of your Company as on 31st March, is as follows:
Name of KMP
(alongwith their Designation) No. of Ordinary (Equity)
% of
Shares held as on
Shareholding
st March, Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer ,, .% Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive
Director and CEO (Auto and Farm
Sector) , .% Mr. Manoj Bhat, Group Chief
Financial Officer Nil – Mr. Narayan Shankar, Company
Secretary , .% MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - X. GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
. Details of General Meetings and Special Resolutions passed
AGM held during the past years and the Special Resolutions passed therein: Year Date Time Special Resolutions passed 7th August, : p.m. . Re-designation of Dr. Pawan Goenka (DIN: ), as “Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer” with effect from 1st April, , revision in
the remuneration payable to him with effect from 1st August, upto
11th November, and re-appointment as “Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer” of the Company with effect from 12th November, to 1st April, . . Appointment of Dr. Anish Shah (DIN: ), as Whole-time Director
designated as “Deputy Managing Director and Group Chief Financial Officer”
from 1st April, to 1st April, and as the Managing Director of
the Company designated as “Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer”
with effect from 2nd April, to 31st March, . . Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (DIN: ), as Whole-time
Director designated as “Executive Director (Automotive and Farm
Sectors)” for a period of years with effect from 1st April, to
31st March, . . Re-appointment of Mr. T. N. Manoharan (DIN: ) as an Independent
Director of the Company, not liable to retire by rotation, to hold office for a
second term of (five) consecutive years commencing from 11th November, to 10th November, . . Payment of remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: ) as a
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for a period of (five) years with
effect from 12th November, . . Payment of remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: ) as
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for the Financial Year -. 6th August, 5th August, : p.m. : p.m. Web link for webcast/
transcripts https://www.mahindra.com/
investor-relations/reports Note: In compliance with the provisions of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) General Circular No. / dated 5th May, read together
with MCA General Circular Nos. & / dated 8th April, and 13th April, , respectively, MCA General Circular No. / dated
13th January, and MCA General Circular No. / dated 5th May, and SEBI’s Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/ CIR/P// dated
12th May, read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/ CMD2/CIR/P// dated 15th January, , the Company conducted the AGM(s) in
the year , and through Video Conferencing /Other Audio Visual Means (“VC”/“OAVM”). Further, in accordance with the Secretarial Standard- on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) read with
Clarification/Guidance on applicability of Secretarial Standards - and dated 15th April, issued by the ICSI, the proceedings of the AGMs of the
Company held in the year , and were deemed to have been conducted at the Registered Office of the Company being the deemed venue
of the AGM.
No Extraordinary General Meeting was held during the past years.
No Special Resolution(s) requiring a Postal Ballot is being proposed at the ensuing AGM of the Company.
No Postal Ballot was conducted during the Financial Year -. .	National Company Law Tribunal Convened Meeting held during the year - and the Resolution(s) passed therein As per the directions of Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench (“NCLT”) by its Order dated 10th June,
, your Company convened a Meeting of Equity Shareholders on 19th August, through VC/OAVM facility for the
purpose of considering, and if thought fit, approving, with or without modification(s), the Scheme of Merger by Absorption
of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (“MEML” or “Transferor Company”) with Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“M&M” or
“Transferee Company” or “the Company”) and their respective shareholders (“Scheme”). The said Order also mentioned
the appointment of Mr. Sachin Bhagwat, Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. ACS ) or in his absence Mr.
Prashant Vaishampayan (Membership No. FCS ) as a Scrutiniser for the purpose of scrutinising the process for voting
and remote e-voting for the Meeting, including for any adjournment(s) thereof. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Details of Combined Voting Results (i.e. result of remote e-voting together with that of the e-voting conducted at the
Meeting) of the above Resolution are as under:
Type of voting Votes in favour of the resolution
Votes against the resolution
Total Number of
Members voted Percentage of
Members voted Number of votes
cast Percentage of
total number of
votes cast , . ,,, . . , . ,* . ,,, . Result Passed with the
requisite majority *	 Member has voted partially in favour and partially against the Resolution and hence has been reckoned only once in the Total. Notice of the Meeting:
•	The Notice of the Meeting along with the statement setting out material facts under section () read with Section and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, , was sent on 16th July, to the Equity Shareholders
in respect of the Resolution proposed at the Meeting.
•	The Equity Shareholders of the Company holding shares as on the cut-off date of 12th August, were entitled to vote
on the resolution as contained in the Notice of the Meeting.
•	In pursuance of the directions issued by the NCLT pursuant to its Order, the Company had duly released an advertisement
intimating the calling of the NCLT convened meeting of the Equity Shareholders and dispatch of Notice, in English newspaper
viz. “Business Standard”, having nation - wide circulation and in Marathi Newspaper viz. “Navshakti”, having circulation in
Maharashtra on 19th July, .
Procedure adopted for Remote E-voting:
•	In terms of the Order and in compliance with the provisions of section () read with section of the Act read with
Rule of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, , as amended and in accordance with Regulation of Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P// dated 9th December, and
Secretarial Standard – on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Members were
provided with the facility to cast their vote electronically, through the e-voting services provided by KFin on Resolution set
forth in the Notice, through remote e-voting.
•	The remote e-voting period commenced on Monday, 15th August, (: a.m. IST) and ended on Thursday, 18th August, (: p.m. IST).
•	The procedure for e-voting during the Meeting was same as that for remote e-voting since the Meeting was held through
VC/OAVM. The e-voting window was activated upon instructions of the Chairman of the Meeting during the Meeting. E-voting
during the Meeting was integrated with the VC/OAVM platform and the Members/ Shareholders, who were present in the
Meeting through VC/OAVM facility and had not cast their vote on the Resolution through remote e-voting and were
otherwise not barred from doing so, were eligible to vote through e-voting system in the Meeting.
Scrutiniser Report
•	The Scrutiniser submitted his combined report on 19th August, . The resolution was passed on Friday, 19th August,
. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - DECLARATION UNDER THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS
AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, To
The Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
I, Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited declare that all the Members of the Board of
Directors and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for the year ended 31st March, .
Mumbai, 26th May, Anish Shah
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer CERTIFICATE
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS UNDER SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) REGULATIONS, TO THE MEMBERS OF MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED
.	This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated September .
.	We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“the Company”), for the year
ended March , as stipulated in regulations to , clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation () and paragraphs C, D and E of
Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, as amended
from time to time (“Listing Regulations”) pursuant to the Listing Agreement of the Company with Stock Exchanges.
Management’s Responsibility
.	The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under the listing regulations is the responsibility of the Company’s
Management including the preparation and maintenance of all the relevant records and documents. This responsibility includes the
design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of Corporate
Governance stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
Auditors’ Responsibility
.	Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the
conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
.	Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable assurance whether the Company
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Listing Regulations for the year ended March .
.	We conducted our examination of the above corporate governance compliance by the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note
on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised ) and Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance both issued
by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the “ICAI”), in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate. The Guidance
Note requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
.	We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) , Quality Control for Firms that
Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
.	In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
.	We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on use
.	The certificate is addressed and provided to the Members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling the Company to comply with
the requirement of the Listing Regulations and should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not
accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into
whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- Place: Mumbai
Date: May Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No: ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJI9024 COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
CERTIFICATE
[Pursuant to Regulation () and sub-clause (i) of clause () of Paragraph C of Schedule V to the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, ]
To,
The Members of
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – I have examined the relevant registers, returns and records maintained by Mahindra and Mahindra Limited (“the Company”) having
CIN L65990MH1945PLC004558 and registered office at Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai – , forms and disclosures
received from the Directors of the Company, produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance
with Regulation () read with sub-clause (i) of clause () of Paragraph C of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, .
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors’ Identification Number (DIN) status at
the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company and its Officers, I certify that none
of the Directors on the Board of the Company for the Financial year ended on March , has been debarred or disqualified from being
appointed or continuing as Director of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such
statutory Authority.
Ensuring eligibility for appointment / continuity of every director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My
responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of
the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. Place: Pune
Date: May CS SACHIN BHAGWAT
Membership No.: A C. P. No.: UDIN: A010189E000383751
PR Certificate No.: / MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity L65990MH1945PLC004558 Name of the Listed Entity Mahindra and Mahindra Limited Year of incorporation Registered office address Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai - Corporate address Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg, Worli,
Mumbai - E-mail investors@mahindra.com Telephone + Website www.mahindra.com Financial Year for which reporting is being done -- to -- Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed Your Company’s Ordinary (Equity) Shares are listed on
BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India
Limited (“NSE”).
The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) of the Company
are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and are also
admitted for trading on International Order Book (IOB) of
the London Stock Exchange.
The Company’s privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures
(NCDs) are listed on the Debt Segment of BSE. Paid-up Capital Rs. . Cr. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the
BRSR report
Name Of Contact Person Rajeshwar Tripathi
Chief Human Resources Officer - Auto and Farm Sector Contact Number Of Contact Person + Email Of Contact Person tripathi.rajeshwar@mahindra.com Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report The disclosures under this report are made on Standalone
made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on basis.
a consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity and all the entities
which form a part of its consolidated financial statements,
taken, together). COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS II. PRODUCTS/SERVICES
. Details of business (accounting for % of the Turnover)
S. Description of Main Activity
No. Description of business activity % of
Turnover of
the entity Motor vehicles, trailers, semi trailers and other Transport
Vehicles . Manufacturing . Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for % of the entity’s Turnover):
S. Product/Service
No. NIC Code % of total
Turnover
contributed Automotive , , , , , . Farm Equipment , . III. OPERATIONS
. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location Number of plants Number of offices Total National International – . Markets served by the entity:
a. Number of locations Location Number National (No. of States) States
and Union
Territories International (No. of Countries) b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? .%
c. A brief on types of customers The Company serves various customers including urban population, rural population, government and corporates, SMEs,
agricultural and non-agricultural business and tours and travels amongst others. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - IV. EMPLOYEES
. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S.
Particulars
No Total (A) Male Female No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) EMPLOYEES
. Permanent (D) , , . . . Other than Permanent (E) , . . . Total employees (D + E) , , . , . . Permanent (F) , , . . . Other than Permanent (G) , , . , . . Total workers (F + G) , , . , . WORKERS • At the entry level (from campuses), during the year, the Company has achieved % gender diversity. • In the workers category, the numbers have gone up by three times over last year. b. Differently abled Employees and workers: S.
Particulars
No Total (A) Male Female No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
. Permanent (D) . – . . Other than Permanent (E) – – – – – . Total differently abled employees (D + E) . – . . Permanent (F) . – . . Other than Permanent (G) – – – – – . Total differently abled workers (F + G) . – . DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS . Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A) No. and percentage of Females
No. (B) % (B/A) Board of Directors . Key Management Personnel * – . * Includes Managing Director & CEO and Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) who are also covered in the number of directors on the Board. . Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
(Disclose trends for the past years)
FY -
(Turnover rate in current FY) FY -
(Turnover rate in previous FY) FY - (Turnover rate in the
year prior to the previous FY) Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Permanent Employees .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Permanent Workers .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS V. HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES)
. (a) Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures The details of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures of the Company are provided in Form AOC‑ and form part of
this Annual Report. S.
No. For the year -, following subsidiaries have participated in Business Responsibility initiatives of the Company: Name of the holding/subsidiary/associate companies/
joint ventures (A) Indicate whether
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint
Venture % of
shares held
by listed
entity* Does the entity indicated
at column A, participate in
the Business Responsibility
initiatives of the listed entity?
(Yes/No) Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra
Intertrade Limited, Name changed w.e.f. ..) Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra World City Developers Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Logistics Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Susten Private Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited Subsidiary . Yes * Percentage holding in subsidiaries represents aggregate percentage of shares/voting power held by the Company and/or its subsidiaries. VI. CSR DETAILS
. CSR Details
Whether CSR is applicable as per section of Companies Act, Yes Turnover (in Rs.) ,. Cr. Net worth (in Rs.) ,. Cr. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - VII. TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCES
.	
Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles to ) under the National Guidelines on Responsible
Business Conduct:
FY -
Stakeholder
group from
whom complaint
is received Grievance
Redressal
Mechanism in
Place (Yes/No) if Yes, then provide web-link for
grievance redress policy Number of
complaints
filed during
the year Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
close of the
year Communities No - – Investors
(other than
shareholders) Yes Name of the policy: FY - Remarks Number of
complaints
filed during
the year Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
close of the
year Remarks – NA – – NA – – NA – – NA – NA – NA Complaints
received in
Q3 and Q4
of
FY -
are under
investigation NA , , NA , , NA – – NA – – NA – – NA – – NA Investors Grievance Redressal
Policy
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments Shareholders Yes Name of the policy:
Investors Grievance Redressal
Policy
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments Employees
and workers Yes Name of the policy:
Code of Conduct for Employees
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments Customers Yes There is no official policy, however,
in all the Company's touch points
like – Owner’s Manual , Website,
With You Hamesha (WYH) App
& Repair Orders, it is mentioned
to connect on the registered
customer care email ID or toll
free number if any feedback. Value Chain
Partners Yes Name of the policy:
Suppliers Code of Conduct
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments Others NA – COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues Material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications: S. No. Material issue
identified Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O) Water Security R Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) Fresh water is an important input The Company strives to mitigate the water Negative
Implication:
for both manufacturing processes risk by adopting following four methods:
and domestic purposes of the .	
The Company utilises various global Stoppage of
Company. Processes such as
tools to identify the water risk across water impacts
paint booths are water intensive
its operation sites and value chain.
manufacturing
processes in automotive and farm
Based upon the amount of risk in
processes and
industry. It is important to use
respective river basins, the mitigation
quality water to maintain the paint
utility set ups.
action is planned and executed.
quality. Water scarcity is India’s
Optimum usage of water in all
silent crisis and unpredictable . 
operations through various water
rainfall across India makes the
efficiency measures adopted such
manufacturing
plants
more
as low volume water taps, arresting
vulnerable for water shortages.
leakages in pipelines, amongst others.
Tractor sales are also largely
dependent upon the monsoon in .	
R ainwater harvesting: By increasing
India. Hence insulating against
rainwater storage capacity.
water risk is one of the identified
.	
Recycling: By installing ETP/STP and
business risks and priorities.
RO plants, we strive to increase our
recycling capacity.
. Carbon
Emissions R  round water recharge: By installing
G
specially designed deep aquifer pits
for improving ground water table. To
ensure the availability of water for
the community, the Company is also
working on watershed management
projects. The business risk of climate The Company has laid down a comprehensive Negative
change can affect the Company in and detailed plan to manage its Greenhouse Implications:
multiple ways including regulatory Gas (GHG) emissions. Some of the programs
Impacts the
impact on vehicle sales, physical or commitments are mentioned below:
environment
changes which could affect the .	
Committed for carbon Pricing-invest
such as physical
operating environment of the
$ per ton of carbon emission.
damage from
products, among others. As the
Committed for EP i.e., double floods or brushfire
Company operates in an evolving .	
Energy productivity by in or forced closures.
carbon
emissions
regulatory
association with The Climate Group.
environment, it is essential that
Flow-on effects
the Company plans and works on .	
Committed to reduce carbon intensity of climate change
ways to mitigate the risk.
by % by FY - (with base or extreme
year of -) - signatory to the events such as
Science based Targets.
supply chain being
.	
Committed to become carbon neutral disrupted by
by . The Company is also focusing extreme weather.
on increasing the market share of
the electric vehicle portfolio in India,
emerging, and developed markets. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - S. No. Material issue
identified Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O) O Waste to
Wealth Product
Stewardship O R Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) The Company is committed to NA
sustainable business practices
by contributing to environment
protection and considers carbon
emission reduction as one of
the strong pillars of preserving
natural resources. Carbon Emission
reduction helps in reducing the
power and fuel cost (which is around
% of total vehicle conversion
cost) and hence improves the
bottom-line under the Company’s
‘Mission Sustainability’. Positive
Implications: The Company is committed to NA
sustainable business practices
by contributing to environment
protection and considers waste
to wealth as one of the focus
areas
under
sustainability.
Production
of
automobiles
involves the generation of waste
materials both Hazardous and
Non-hazardous
waste.
The
major impact through this waste
is environment pollution and
resource depletion. Positive
Implications: Impacts resource
efficiencies and
cost savings. The
adoption of lowemission energy
sources results in
the development of
new products and
services, access to
new markets and
building resilience
along the supply
chain. Reduction in
waste generation
or recycling of
waste leads to
economic gains
and supports in
reduction of Green
House Gas (GHG)
emissions. In the current situation, customers To cater to the new product requirements, Negative
have many options to choose the Company is into various phases Implications:
from various brands. Competition of R&D/production/marketing of clean
It is
from peers, customer focus, new automotive products like hybrid vehicles,
imperative for
regulations,
market
demand, bio-fuel vehicles, electric passenger
manufacturers
etc. are some of the drivers vehicle, hydrogen combustion engine
to design
for constant evolution and new vehicle, etc. Further, a full-fledged Product
products so as
Improvement Roadmap is in place at the
product development.
to meet changing
Company. This roadmap focuses on the
consumer
reduction in specific fuel consumption,
behaviour and
weight reduction, switching to alternative
expectations.
fuels, enhancing product safety, etc. We are
Creating
fully geared up to leverage opportunities
products and
through our initiatives in Shared Mobility,
services that are
Electric Vehicles, innovative products and
not-sustainable/
extensive product portfolio.
not viable/
not accessible/
not affordable
will have an
impact on overall
brand image
and economic
performance . S. No. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT Material issue
identified Health and
Safety MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O) R CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) The Company is committed to zero- The Company is a people-first company and Negative
accidents at the workplace. However, strives to mitigate the plant’s risks arising from Implications:
certain risks as under have been health and safety issues.
The consequences
identified:
The Company incorporates high safety standards of poor health
a.	
Overall being old plant Space for safe working conditions to achieve an inter- and safety in
dependent safety culture.
constraint
the workplace
b.	
Depletion of skills due to To avoid unsafe incidents, the Company has have an impact
retirement and deployment of adopted key safety standards, safety tools and on the safety of
the employees.
new contract/trainee workmen practices, including:
Work-related
c.	
Less exposure to Latest . ISO certification for all sites
illness or injury
Technology and high dependency
.	
Implementing Mahindra safety standards not only puts an
on Manual Activities
with global benchmarking in all employee out of
work for a while
d.	
manufacturing operations
Lack of contingencies of critical
and impacts their
equipments/old equipments
.	
Work proactively towards eliminating
quality of life, it
health and safety concerns of the
may also damage
workforce
the business’s
.	
Installing cutting edge and the latest productivity,
firefighting systems at the plants
finances and
.	Improving and developing safety skills by reputation.
creating safety awareness, conducting
trainings and dexterity of machining,
assembly, safety in material handling .	
Instituting safety mechanisms based on
the recognized Kaizen and Poka-Yoke
concepts
.	Promoting proactive measures to prevent
accidents and occupational hazards
such as SOTs, internal audits, safety
assessments and regular reviews
.	Rewarding and recognizing commendable
achievements in the filed of Health and
Safety
The Company’s focus is not only on physical
health, but also on the mental health and
well-being of employees. The Company creates
awareness, provides information, assists
employees with counselling, provides them with
therapy and training, engages with them on a
regular basis on new realities and emotional
challenges they face daily under the belowlisted health and wellness pillars:
. Physical Health . Food and Nutrition . Psychological well-being . Way wellness MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - S. No. Material issue
identified Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O) Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) Sustainable
Supply Chain R The Company considers suppliers The Company has set stringent Code of Conduct Negative
as business partners and strives to for all supplier partners. Further, the Company Implications:
develop sustainable supply chain. For mitigates supply chain risk, the Company has
Improvement in
delivering right product/services at established Supplier Risk Management and
ESG practices
right time to customers, supply chain mitigation (SRMM) process for suppliers. SRMM
at the supplier's
plays a vital role and any disruption in includes Financial Risk, Safety Risk, Labour Risk.
end will improve
supply chain will impact the business The Company is conducting Health, Safety
supply chain
of the Company. Moreover, any breach Practices and working condition audit for identified
efficiency &
of ESG practices will result in severe suppliers through industry experts. Based on the
considerably
impact on supplier’s business and also improvement areas mentioned in report, supplier
reduce the risk
on the business of the Company and prepares and submits action plan.
of supply chain
its reputation.
By the end of FY23, the Company has also disruption along
initiated on-site ESG audit for suppliers through with reputation
internationally reputed agencies.
risk. This will
For enhancing capability of suppliers, the result in smooth
Company runs supplier development programs operations.
namely Supplier Business Capability Building
(SBCB) and Mahindra Supplier Evaluation
system (MSES) for identified suppliers. The
Company also conducts training programs on
sustainability topics like Environment, Social
and Governance practices for its suppliers. CSR
Management O As a part of nation building, the NA
Company has implemented various
CSR projects primarily serving the
constituencies of girls and women and
supporting the environment through
a massive tree plantation drive. Key
projects are mentioned below:
Project Nanhi Kali is a pan-India girl
child empowerment programme which
helps under-privileged girls complete
their schooling. Through the project,
girls in government schools (from
Classes -) are provided with daily
after school academic support, access
to an AI powered personalized learning
software via digital tablets, a sports
curriculum and a school supplies kit.
The Mahindra Pride Classrooms is
a pan-India women empowerment
initiative to impart skilling for
women enrolled in government/
government-aided vocational colleges
and institutions. Women are trained in
English speaking, life skills, interview
preparedness and digital literacy,
which are critical skills required to
boost their employability.
Project Hariyali aims to increase the
green cover, arrest the rising ecological
imbalance, protect the biodiversity and
in the process support the livelihood of
marginalized farmers. Positive
Implications:
The Company
is required to
spend % of
the average net
proﬁt for the last
three ﬁnancial
years on CSR
Initiatives.
Through the CSR
initiatives, the
following are
achieved:
. Empowerment
of underprivileged girls to
complete their
schooling
. Increase in
employability of
women
. Increase in
green cover
and support to
the livelihood
of marginalized
farmers COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place
towards adopting the NGRBC principles and core elements.
P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable P2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe P3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains P4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights P6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to restore and protect the environment P7 Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent P8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 a.	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies
cover each principle and its core elements
of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes b.	
Has the policy been approved by the
Board? (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Disclosure Questions
Policy and Management Processes c. Web-link of the Policies, if available It has been the Company’s practice to upload all policies on the intranet site for
the information and implementation by the internal stakeholders.
Policies viz. Code of Conduct for Directors, Code of Conduct for Employees,
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, Policy on Prevention of Sexual
Harassment and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy are available on the
following web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents Whether the entity has translated the policy
into procedures. (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Do the enlisted policies extend to your value
chain partners? (Yes/No) Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/labels/standards (e.g., Forest
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest
Alliance, Trustee) standards (e.g., SA ,
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and
mapped to each principle. . ISO . ISO . ISO (QMS) . ISO Specific commitments, goals and targets set The Company is committed to becoming a Planet Positive business with a clear
action plan that includes becoming Carbon Neutral (Scope1 and ) by ,
by the entity with defined timelines, if any.
doubling energy productivity by , zero waste to landfill by , sustaining
its water positivity index and increasing its share of renewable energy to %
by . The Company is the largest electric -wheeler company in the country
with dominant Market Share and supporting a net-zero supply chain. Also, %
of waste generated by the Company is recycled and reused.
The Company has a formal policy on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities which
is available in the public domain, and the Company stands committed to the same. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - P1 Disclosure Questions P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Performance of the entity against the specific The Company has a clear -year roadmap on material ESG aspects and planet
commitments, goals and targets along-with positive commitments. The detailed performance against roadmap/Action plan
is provided in the Sustainability Report.
reasons in case the same are not met. Governance, Leadership and Oversight Statement by director responsible for the The Company’s environmental sustainability goal, in alignment with the Paris
business responsibility report, highlighting ESG Agreement and commitment to Science Based Targets (SBTi), is to become
related challenges, targets and achievements a carbon neutral company by . A leader in the ESG space in India, the
Company is well-poised to take the lead globally. It joined the ‘First Movers
Coalition’ to work towards driving demand for zero-carbon technologies at the
World Economic Forum, along with global giants such as Amazon and Apple.
It is the only Indian corporate whose companies have been named in CDP’s
Leadership Band for corporate sustainability. The Company has become the
first Indian ‘Automobile and Components’ company to enter the World Index
of DJSI.
Its Risk Management framework works at various levels across the enterprise,
with a robust organisational structure, for managing and reporting risks. Its
FUTURise framework shapes our ambition to transform the Company into a
global innovation powerhouse driven by technology. This approach is rooted
in three guiding principles: Do more with less, Do it together, and Do it for all. Details of the highest authority responsible for Dr. Anish Shah - Managing Director and CEO (DIN: ) is the Director
implementation and oversight of the Business responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility
policy(ies).
Responsibility policy(ies).
Mr. Rajeshwar Tripathi - Chief Human Resources Officer (Auto and Farm Sectors)
is the BR Head Does the entity have a specified Committee
of the Board/Director responsible for decision
making on sustainability related issues?
(Yes/No). If yes, provide details. Yes. The Company has a CSR Committee of the Board which oversees the CSR
performance in the year. It consists of five members including independent
directors and Managing Director and CEO. Further, the Committee is chaired by
a Woman Independent Director. For composition of the CSR Committee, please
refer Page No. of the Annual Report in the Corporate Governance Section.
The CSR Committee of the Board assesses the BRSR performance twice a year.
Other supporting councils or cells are Group Sustainability Council, Group CSR
Council, Central Safety Council and Corporate Governance Council, who meet
every months for decision making related to sustainability issues. . Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director/
Committee of the Board/Any other Committee Frequency (Annually/Half yearly/Quarterly/
Any other – please specify) P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Performance against
above policies and follow
up action Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quarterly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly Compliance with
statutory requirements
of relevance to
the principles, and,
rectification of any
non-compliances Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quarterly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Has the entity carried out independent
assessment/evaluation of the working of
its policies by an external agency? (Yes/
No). If yes, provide name of the agency CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 No No Yes,
Deloitte
Touche
Tohmatsu
India LLP No No No No No No . If answer to question () above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Question P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 The entity does not consider the Principles material to its
business (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical
resources available for the task (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Any other reason (please specify) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY, AND IN A MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL,
TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year: Segment Total number of training and
awareness programmes held Topics/principles covered under
the training and its impact % age of persons in respective category
covered by the awareness programmes Board of Directors Code of Conduct (COC), Anti-Bribery
and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) and
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at
Workplace (POSH) Key Managerial
Personnel Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption and POSH Employees other
than BoD and KMPs Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption and POSH COC – ABAC – POSH – Workers Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption and POSH MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - .  etails of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the
D
entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year:
Monetary
NGRBC Principle Name of the regulatory/enforcement
agencies/judicial institutions Nil NA Nil NA Amount (In INR) Brief of the Case Has an appeal been preferred?
(Yes/No) NA No NA No NA No Penalty/Fine
–
Settlement
–
Compounding fee
Nil NA –
Non-Monetary NGRBC Principle Name of the regulatory/enforcement
agencies/judicial institutions Brief of the Case Has an appeal been preferred?
(Yes/No) NA No NA No Imprisonment
Nil NA
Punishment Nil NA . Of the instances disclosed in Question above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where monetary
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions NA NA . Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, description of ABAC to be provided and
if available, provide a web-link to the policy. Yes, the Company practices a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has a policy on Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption. This policy provides a framework for ensuring compliance with legislations governing bribery and corruption
globally. The web-link to the policy is https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement
agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:
FY - FY - Directors Nil Nil KMPs Nil Nil Employees Nil Nil Workers Nil Nil . Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY - FY - Number Remarks Number Remarks Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors – NA – NA Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs – NA – NA .  rovide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by
P
regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
NA COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY -
% FY -
% Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
Development of Born Electric Vehicles R&D – Zero Tailpipe emission and improving air quality
– Reducing reliance on Fossil fuel
Development of Trem , Trem V, CPCB4, Stage V Technologies
– To reduce air pollution Capex – Mitigate Global warming effects
Electric tractor
– Concept development of e-tractor and POC completion . a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) Yes
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? The Company has been working to enhance the degree of sustainability associated with its sourcing practices under
“ONE SOURCING”. As part of the sourcing strategy, the Company has set up vendor parks near manufacturing plants,
source from tightly knit clusters, optimize logistics to reduce fuel consumption, emissions and carbon footprint. The
Company has reduced domestic wood used for packaging and supply of material by % from the base year of .
. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste. CERO, which is India's first and largest network of vehicle recycling company, is a brand under subsidiary Mahindra MSTC
Recycling Private Limited, established in collaboration with Government of India Enterprise (GOI). CERO strives to achieve
the goal of zero pollution, wastage, and metal scrap imports.
(a) Plastics (including packaging) Plastic which is being removed from end-of-life vehicle is recycled through agencies authorized by the Pollution Control
Board. Granules are prepared from the plastic waste and used as raw material for making new product. The Company
does not use any packaging material in its process.
(b) E-waste E-waste is recycled through recyclers authorized by the Pollution Control Board as per E-waste management Rules, . (c) Hazardous waste All hazardous waste from the vehicle is removed before beginning the scrapping process. This includes collection of fluid
and CFC. The Hazardous waste (fluid) is sent to agencies authorized by the Pollution Control Board for recycling/refining.
(d) Other waste. All the ferrous and non-ferrous metals are extracted from the vehicle for recycling. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No).
Yes
If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Yes PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR
VALUE CHAINS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by Category Total
(A) Health insurance Accident insurance Maternity Benefits Paternity Benefits Day Care facilities Number
(B) % (B/A) Number
(C) % (C/A) Number
(D) % (D/A) Number
(E) % (E/A) Number
(F) % (F/A) Permanent employees
Male , , . , . – . , . – . Female . . . – . . Total , , . , . . , . . Other than Permanent employees
Male . . – . . – . Female . . . – . . Total , , . , . . . . b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by Category Health insurance
Total (A) Accident insurance Maternity Benefits Paternity Benefits Day Care facilities Number
(B) % (B/A) Number
(C) % (C/A) Number
(D) % (D/A) Number
(E) % (E/A) Number
(F) % (F/A) Permanent workers
Male , , . , . – . – . – . Female . . . – . . Total , , . , . . – . . Other than Permanent workers
Male , , . , . – . , . – . Female , , . , . , . – . . Total , , . , . , . , . . COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
FY - FY - No. of employees
covered as
a % of total
employees No. of workers
covered as a %
of total workers Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.) No. of employees
covered as
a % of total
employees No. of workers
covered as a %
of total workers Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.) PF . . Yes . . Yes Gratuity . . Yes . . Yes – . Yes – . Yes Benefits ESI . Accessibility of workplaces
 re the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements
A
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, ? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this
regard.
Yes . Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, ? If so,
provide a web-link to the policy. Yes, as per the Company’s practice, the Equal Opportunity policy is on the intranet site for the information and implementation
by the internal stakeholders.
. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent employees Permanent workers Gender Return to work rate Retention rate Return to work rate Retention rate Male % % %* %* Female % % %* %* Total % % %* %* * In the Financial Year -, no permanent worker availed parental leave.
. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and
worker? If yes, details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of
the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers Yes Other than Permanent Workers Yes Permanent Employees Yes Other than Permanent Employees Yes Remark
The Company has a policy on Whistle-blower mechanism and
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (POSH) to
provide a work environment that ensures every person at the
workplace is treated with respect and dignity and is afforded
equal treatment. Issues relating to sexual harassment are
dealt with as per the Company's POSH Policy, the Company’s
POSH Policy is gender neutral. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
FY - FY - % (B/A) Total employees/
workers in
respective
category (C) No. of employees/
workers in respective
category, who are
part of association(s)
or Union (D) % (D/C) – .% , – .% , – .% , – .% – Female – .% – .% Total
Permanent
Workers , , .% , , .% – Male , , .% , , .% – Female .% .% Total employees/
workers in
respective
category (A) No. of employees/
workers in respective
category, who are
part of association(s)
or Union (B) Total
Permanent
Employees , – Male Category . Details of training given to employees and workers:
FY -
Category Total (A) FY - On Health and
safety measures On Skill upgradation No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) Total (D) On Health and
safety measures On Skill upgradation No. (E) % (E/D) No. (F) % (F/D) Permanent Employees
Male , , .% , .% , , .% , .% Female .% .% .% .% Total , , .% , .% , , .% , .% Permanent Workers
Male , , .% , .% , , .% , .% Female .% .% .% .% Total , , .% , .% , , .% , .% . Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
FY - FY - Total (A) No. of
Employees/
Workers
(B) % (B/A) Total (C) No. of
Employees/
Workers
(D) % (D/C) Male , , .% , , .% Female .% .% Total , , .% , , .% Male , , .% , , .% Female .% .% Total , , .% , , .% Category Employees Workers COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Health and safety management system:
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/No).
If yes, the coverage such system? Yes, all Plants are ISO : certified for OHSMS by TuV Nord. b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine
basis by the entity? Across all manufacturing plants, Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment- Control (HIRA) is in place for each of the
Routine and Non-Routine activities performed in plants. In addition to HIRA, the Company also identifies work related
hazards through the following processes: . Process Hazard Analysis . Job Safety Analysis . Safety inspections . Safety Surveys Internal and External Safety Audits, . . Electrical Safety Audits, . Fire Audits . Plant Level Safety Committee meetings . Department Level Safety committee meetings . Safety Observation Tours (SoT) c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from
such risks. (Y/N) Yes, the Company has a Plant Safety Committee under FA1948 at each Manufacturing Plant. d. 
Do the employees/worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
(Yes/No) Yes, there is an in-house Occupational Health Centre (OHC) for health checks of routine and non-routine employees. . Details of safety related incidents:
Safety Incident/Number
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked) Total recordable work-related injuries No. of fatalities High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities) Category FY - FY - Employees – – Workers . . Employees – – Workers Employees – – Workers – – Employees – – Workers – – MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
The Company has taken the following initiatives to ensure a safe and healthy workplace:
. Conducting training for Dexterity, Induction, refresher and on-job trainings followed by test on Safety, Occupational Health
and Environment
. Safety Observation Tours (SoT), Safety inspections as per schedule . Monthly Safety Theme is driven across plants . Walk through Safety audits and External and internal Safety audits for capturing unsafe conditions related to the
workplace and safety of employees and associates
. Fire Safety Audits . Electrical Safety audits . Behaviour based safety implantation process . Review and closure of safety observations under Daily Work Management (DWM) . 
Environmental Monitoring, Monitoring and Measurement of workplace for Noise, Heat, Ventilation, Air and water
Sampling as per scheduled program
. Critical Equipment and Machinery Checks
. 
Management of Change Process, Gap Audit, Safe Operating Procedures, Competency Training for employees and
Contractors, Employee Participation, Mechanical Integrity, Work Permit System, Incident Investigation, Compliance
Audits, Emergency Planning and Response
. Pre-startup and shutdown procedures
. Compliance Management System
. Management reviews with Senior Management
. Conducting Plant level and Department level Safety Committee meetings, HIRA sheet, Job Safety Analysis (JSA) and
Safety Inspection
. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY - FY - Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year Remarks Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year Remarks Working Conditions – – NA – – NA Health and Safety – – NA – – NA . Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices . Working Conditions . . Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions. HIRA - C is a dynamic document that is updated and reviewed periodically for all activities and operations performed in the
plant. If there is any Near Miss and/or Injury Incident, the HIRA sheet is revised with adequate control measures and is then
implemented for performing the respective activities. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. The Company identifies its stakeholders based on the Value Chain of the businesses and how they influence the Company.
The Company also believes in being a neighbour of choice and works in consultation with neighbourhood communities in
and around the vicinity of its business operation as well as in some of the aspirational districts beyond the neighbourhood.
.  ist stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder
L
group.
Purpose and scope of
engagement including key
topics and concerns raised
during such engagement Whether identified
as Vulnerable and
Marginalized Group
(Yes/No) Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper,
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other Frequency of
engagement (Annually/
Half yearly/Quarterly/
others - please specify) Shareholders No Website, E-mail, Newspaper,
dissemination of information
on the website of the Stock
Exchanges, Press Releases,
Annual
Reports,
General
Meetings,
Institutional
Investors Meets Quarterly/Event based Dissemination of information
having a bearing on the
performance/operations
of
the Company including price
sensitive information, updating
Shareholders
on
various
statutory requirements with
respect to their shareholding
in the Company, addressing
shareholders’ queries at the
General Meetings, earnings call
with institutional investors/
analysts in respect of quarterly/
half-yearly/annual
financial
results Employees No Website, E-mail, Newsletters Regular Open
and
transparent
communication.
Addressing
employees’
questions
and
clarifications Community No Community Meetings Regular Project progress and benefits Suppliers No Website, E-mail, Newsletters Regular Business
Model
Resilience,
Supply
Chain
Management,
Materials Sourcing and Material
Efficiency Dealers No Website, E-mail Regular Service Quality, Sustainability
and Creating Customer Delight Customer No Website, E-mail, Newsletters Regular Product Quality and Safety,
Selling Practices and Product
Labelling,
Access
and
Affordability Stakeholder
Group MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity: Category FY - FY - Total (A) No. of
employees/
workers covered
(B) No. of
employees/
workers covered
(D) % (B/A) Total (C) % (D/C) Employees
Permanent , , .% , , .% Other than permanent , .% , , .% Total Employees , , .% , , .% Permanent , , .% , , .% Other than permanent , , .% , , .% Total Workers , , .% , , .% Workers . Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
FY -
Category Total (A) FY - Equal to Minimum
Wage More than Minimum
Wage No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) Total (D) Equal to Minimum
Wage More than Minimum
Wage No. (E) % (E/D) No. (F) % (F/D) Employees
Permanent , – . , . , – . , . Male , – . , . , – . , . Female – . . – . . Other than
permanent , – . , . , – . , . Male – . . , – . , . Female – . . – . . Permanent , – . , . , . , . Male , – . , . , . , . Female – . . – . . Other than
permanent , , . , . , , . , . Male , , . , . , , . , . Female , . , . . . Workers . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS Details of remuneration/salary/wages:
Male # CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Female Number Median remuneration/salary/
wages of respective category
(Rs.) Number Median remuneration/salary/
wages of respective category
(Rs.) Board of Directors (BoD) # . Cr. . Cr. Key Managerial Personnel * . Cr. – – Employees other than BoD and
KMP , . Cr. . Cr. Workers , . Cr. . Cr. 
Includes
one of the Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors who has waived his right to receive sitting fees/remuneration during his tenure as a NonExecutive Non-Independent Director of the Company. * Includes Managing Director & CEO and Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) who are also covered in the number of directors on the Board. . Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
Yes, there is a Ethics helpline that addresses all such issues, which has a structured mechanism for closure.
. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. The Company has Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (“POSH”) and Ethics and Governance Policy
which include stringent SOPs for human rights grievance redressal with respect to sexual harassment and ethical practices.
Further, the Company has an initiative SPEAK UP to spread awareness about POSH. As a part of Speak UP Awareness
campaign, case studies on corruption and harassment have been prepared which are circulated to the ethics counsellors
along with the SPEAK UP presentations. The ethics counsellors then conduct SPEAK UP awareness sessions for officers
and workmen covering various case studies. Leadership messages on SPEAK UP are also circulated on a timely basis. Thus,
zero tolerance towards any human rights violation is ensured diligently in the Company.
. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY -
Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year FY -
Remarks Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year Remarks Sexual Harassment – NA Complaints
have been
resolved
subsequent to
the end of the
year Discrimination at
workplace – – NA – – NA Child Labour – – NA – – NA Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour – – NA – – NA Wages – – NA – – NA Other human rights
related issues – – NA – – NA . Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. The Company has policies and laid down processes on discrimination at workplace, POSH and Ethics and Governance, which
include stringent SOPs for human rights grievance redressal with respect to sexual harassment and ethical practices. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No) Yes, the Company has a policy on zero child labour, zero tolerance for discrimination at workplace and other human rights
violations which extends to supply chain as well.
. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties) Child labour . Forced/involuntary labour . Sexual harassment . Discrimination at workplace . Wages . Others - please specify NA . Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the
assessments at Question above.
NA PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity: Parameter Please specify unit FY - FY - Total electricity consumption (A) GJ – Giga Joules ,, ,, Total fuel consumption (B) GJ – Giga Joules ,, ,, Energy consumption through other sources (C) GJ – Giga Joules – – Total energy consumption (A+B+C) GJ – Giga Joules ,, ,, Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption/turnover in rupees) GJ – Giga Joules NA NA GJ – Giga Joules/Eq Vehicle
Giga Joules/Eq Tractor Automotive Sector: .
Farm Sector: . Automotive Sector: .
Farm Sector: . Energy intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
.  oes the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve
D
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any
No COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Details of the following disclosures related to water: Parameter
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
(ii) Groundwater
(iii) Third party water
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water
(v) Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/
turnover)
Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity Please specify unit FY - FY - Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres ,
,,
,,
–
,, ,
,,
,,
–
,, Kilolitres ,, ,, Kilolitres ,, ,, Kilolitres NA NA Kilolitres/Eq Vehicle
Kilolitres/Eq Tractor Automotive Sector: .
Farm Sector: . Automotive Sector: .
Farm Sector: . Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and
implementation.
•	Yes, zero liquid discharge is one of the main focus areas among all environment related initiatives. No water goes out
from the Company‘s site boundary untreated except rainwater through dedicated storm water drains.
• Most of the plants have rainwater recharging pits for injecting rainwater into deep aquifers. •	Though the Company relies more heavily on freshwater, recycled water is, and will continue to be, important for the
Company to secure enough water to manufacture vehicles and parts. The Company recycles % of fresh water
through waste water recycling plants.
•	Domestic wastewater is recycled through STP (sewage treatment plant) and process wastewater through ETP (effluent
treatment plant). Each STP and ETP treatment plants have got levels of treatment i.e., Primary, Secondary and Tertiary.
In primary treatment through HRSCC (high-rate solid contact clarifier) all suspended solids are removed. In secondary
treatment, through MBBR technology, BOD +COD levels are controlled well below the permissible limit. In tertiary
treatment, through Carbon, sand filtration and disinfection units (UV/chlorination) bacteria and viruses are removed.
•	A portion of recycled water is further treated in reverse osmosis plant (to make it compatible for process and cooling requirement)
and the remaining portion of treated water goes into gardening to the existing green belt created within operations boundary.
. Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity: Parameter Please specify unit FY - FY - NOx tCO2e . . SOx tCO2e . . Particulate matter (PM) tCO2e . . Persistent organic pollutants (POP) tCO2e NA NA Volatile organic compounds (VOC) tCO2e NA NA Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) tCO2e NA NA Others - please specify NA NA NA Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - .	Details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope and Scope emissions) and its intensity:
Parameter Unit FY - FY - Total Scope emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4,
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) tCO2e , , Total Scope emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4,
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) tCO2e ,, ,, Total Scope and Scope emissions per rupee of turnover NA NA NA Total Scope and Scope emission intensity (optional) - the
relevant metric may be selected by the entity tCO2e/Eq Vehicle tCO2e/
Eq Tractor Automotive Sector: .
Farm Sector: . Automotive Sector: .
Farm Sector: . Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details:
•	Yes, the Company is committed to becoming Carbon Neutral by . It is also committed for Science Based Target
(SBT) to de-carbonize its growth and thus contributing to keep global temperature rise below degrees Celsius as per
Paris accord .
•	The Company has a robust roadmap for achieving these commitments through improvement in energy efficiency and
adoption of renewable energy. Few of the initiatives to reduce Green House Gas emission are mentioned below: o Adoption of Renewable energy through solar and windmills o Adoption of clean energy i.e., through switching over from HSD to PNG o Replacement of conventional air circulators with BLDC technology air circulators o Radiant cooling system to optimize the HVAC operating load o Replacement of old conventional lights with LED’s o Installation of energy efficient air compressor o Replacement of old motors with premium efficiency IE3 motors o Installation of Energy efficient inverter split AC’s o Installation of auto shut off valves for compressed air o Waste heat recovery from air compressors o Installation of IT guns for spot welding etc COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Details related to waste management by the entity: Parameter Parameter FY - FY - Plastic waste (A) metric tonnes ,. ,. E-waste (B) metric tonnes . . Bio-medical waste (C) metric tonnes . . Construction and demolition waste (D) metric tonnes . . Battery waste (E) metric tonnes . . Radioactive waste (F) metric tonnes – – Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) metric tonnes ,. ,. Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition
i.e. by materials relevant to the sector) metric tonnes ,,. ,,. Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H) metric tonnes ,,. ,,. Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes) For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling,
re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled metric tonnes ,. , (ii) Re-used metric tonnes . (iii) Other recovery operations metric tonnes ,. – metric tonnes ,. ,. Total
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal
method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration metric tonnes ,. (ii) Landfilling metric tonnes ,. , (iii) Other disposal operations metric tonnes . , metric tonnes ,. ,. Total Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
.  riefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted
B
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
•	The Company has robust waste management process and aims to be Zero Waste to Landfill for all its sites by .
•	The Company’s approach to waste management is that of a circular economy aimed at eliminating waste and the
continual use of resources. In a circular economy, waste materials and energy become input for other processes or as
regenerative resources for nature.
•	The Company is committed to responsible disposal as per all applicable norms, leading to better ecosystems. When the
waste diversion rate for any company is % or more then it can be declared as “Zero Waste to Landfill”.
•	Landfill diversion can occur through recycling which can include glass, paper, metal, plastic, textile, or electronics
(E-Waste), lead batteries etc. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - •	Organic Waste can be diverted to biological treatment through which the waste is reused. Another method is the
thermal treatment (incineration) with the generation of power.
•	Hazardous waste such as paint sludge, oily cotton waste can be diverted to coprocessing operation, which can be
reused as a resource (fuel) for cement industries. It can be also recycled as raw material.
•	Food waste generated at manufacturing plants are moved to the biogas plant for biogas generation. All the nonhazardous waste, which is generated inside the plant like metal, non-metal parts are being recycled.
•	Implementing “Zero Waste to Landfill” program resulted in not only environmental benefit but also in business benefit.
The Company started looking at all the Company’s waste as a valuable resource and started converting it into wealth.
This is also called Waste Circular Economy in which the Company’s waste is used as a resource for someone.
. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries,
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental
approvals/clearances are required, please specify details:
S.
No. Location of
operations/offices Type of operations Whether the conditions of environmental approval/
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons
there of and
corrective action
taken, if any. NA NA NA NA . Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year:
Name and brief
details of project EIA Notification No. Date Whether
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes/No) Results communicated in
public domain (Yes/No) Relevant Web link NA NA NA NA NA NA .	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act
and rules thereunder (Y/N).
Yes If not, details of all such non-compliances:
S.
No. Specify the law/
regulation/
guidelines which
was not complied
with Provide details
of the
non-compliance Any fines/penalties/action taken by regulatory agencies
such as pollution control boards or by courts Corrective action
taken, if any NA NA NA NA COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT
IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations. b.	List the top trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such
body) the entity is a member of/affiliated to.
S.
No. Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations Reach of trade and industry chambers/associations (State/
National) The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India
(ASSOCHAM) National Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) State Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) National Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) National The Employers' Federation of India (EFI) National Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) National . Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse
orders from regulatory authorities. Name of authority Brief of the case Corrective action taken NA NA NA PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year.
Name and brief
details of project SIA notification
No. Date of
notification NA NA NA Whether conducted by Results communicated
independent external
in public domain
agency (Yes/No)
(Yes/No)
NA NA Relevant Web Link NA The Company did not start any greenfield project in the reporting year, and hence, no community group was rehabilitated and
resettled for any project. Therefore, the question is not applicable.
. Information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity:
S. No. Name of Project
for which R&R is
ongoing State District No. of Project
Affected Families
(PAFs) % of PAFs
covered by R&R Amounts paid to
PAFs in the
FY (In INR) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The Company did not start any greenfield project in the reporting year, and hence, no community group was rehabilitated and
resettled for any project. Therefore, the question is not applicable. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Describe the mechanism to receive and redress grievances of the community.
NA . Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY - FY - Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers % % Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts % % PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. The Mahindra Relationships Center (MRC) manages Toll free numbers, Social Media Platforms and an email address through
which consumer can raise their complaints.
. Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product . Safe and responsible usage . Recycling and/or safe disposal . . Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY -
(Current Financial Year) FY -
(Previous Financial Year) Received
during the
year Pending
resolution at
end of year Remarks Received
during the
year Pending
resolution at
end of year Remarks Data privacy – – NA – – NA Advertising – – NA – – NA Cyber-security – – NA – – NA Delivery of essential services – – NA – – NA Restrictive Trade Practices – – NA – – NA – – NA – – NA , , – , , – Unfair Trade Practices
Other (Consumer Complaints) . Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number Reasons for recall Voluntary recalls – NA Forced recalls – NA . Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a
web-link of the policy.
Yes, https://mahindra.com/privacy-policy.
. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services;
cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory
authorities on safety of products/services.
NA COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Financial Position at a Glance
Rupees crores
As per Ind AS and Schedule III of
the Companies Act, As per previous
GAAP and
Schedule III of the
Companies Act, * Property, Plant and Equipment
and Intangible Assets , , , , , , , , , , Investments , , , , , , , , , , Inventories , , , , , , , , , , Trade Receivable/Debtors , , , , , , , , , , Other Non Current/Current Assets , , , , , , , , , , Borrowings and Lease Liabilities , , , , , , , , , , Non Current/Current Liabilities
and Provisions , , , , , , , , , , Deferred Tax Liabilities/(Assets)
(Net) , , , , () Equity Capital Other Equity , , , , , , , , , , Net Worth , , , , , , , , , , Book Value Per Share (Rupees) . . . . . + . . . . . + Book Value Per Share is adjusted for Bonus Shares alloted in the ratio of : during December .
* Refer note (B) to the Financial Statements. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Summary of Operations
Rupees crores
As per Ind AS and Schedule III
of the Companies Act, As per previous GAAP and Schedule III
of the Companies Act, * Income , , , , , , , , , , Materials , , , , , , , , , , — — — — — , , , , , , , , , , , , , , Depreciation, amortisation and
impairment expense , , , , , , , , Other Expenses , , , , , , , , , , Exceptional items (,) () (,) (,) () Profit before tax for the year , , , , , , , , , , Tax for the year , , , , , , , , Balance profit , , , , , , , , , Dividend (including tax thereon) #, , , , , Equity Dividend (%) Earnings Per Share (Rupees) ^ . . . . . . . . . . Vehicles produced/
purchased (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Vehicles sold (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Tractors produced (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Tractors sold (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Excise Duty
Employee Benefits Expense
Finance Costs/Interest ^ Adjusted for Bonus Shares alloted in the ratio of : during December .
# Proposed Dividend.
* Refer note (B) to the Financial Statements. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Financial Highlights Earnings Per Share (Rs.) PAT growth over Net Income (Rupees crores)
Net Income Net Income . . FY2020 . . . . . .
. FY2019 .
EPS (Rs.) . PAT PAT FY2021 FY2022 . FY2023 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Segmental Revenue
F- Debt Equity Ratio
. Others
.% . Farm
Equipment
.% Times .
. . . . . . . .
FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 Automotive
.% MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
 Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the “Company”) which comprise the standalone balance sheet as
at March , and the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in equity
and standalone statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including a summary of significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial statements give the
information required by the Companies Act, (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March , and its profit and other comprehensive loss, changes
in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section () of the Act. Our responsibilities under those
SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of
the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that
are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements. Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial statements of
the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment assessment of certain long-term investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Company has long-term investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates (collectively “the investments”) aggregating Rs. ,
crores as at March . The Company records the investments
at cost less any provision for impairment loss. Changes in business
environment, including market or economic environment, geopolitical
situation and general inflationary trend could have a significant impact
on the valuation of certain investments. Investments where an indication
based on these factors exist, are tested for impairment at the end of
the reporting period. Our audit procedures included: The Company determines the recoverable value of such investments
and compares it to its carrying amount to determine impairment loss.
The recoverable value is determined basis following key assumptions:
• projected future cash inflows; • expected growth rate; discount rate; terminal growth rate; • comparison of price and market multiples The recoverable amount, which is the higher of the market value or Value
In Use (VIU) or fair value less cost of disposal of such investments, is
estimated and the impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement
of profit and loss and carrying amount of investments is reduced to its
recoverable amount.
See Note (d)(iv) to the Standalone financial statements. •	Assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
key controls in respect of the Company’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models;
•	Obtained an understanding of various external factors impacting the
recoverable value of the investment as at the end of the reporting
period;
•	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash flows
such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation and
growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived data,
past performances, consistency with the Board approved investment
plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Involved valuation specialists, as applicable, to evaluate the
assumptions including the discount rates used in VIU calculations;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management; and
•	Assessed the adequacy of disclosures on key judgements, assumptions
and quantitative data with respect to impairment losses. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Impairment assessment of tangible assets and development expenditure capitalised and currently under development
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Company’s automotive and trucks and buses Cash Generating Units
(‘Auto CGU’) have aggregate tangible assets of Rs. , crores, which
includes property, plant and equipment of Rs. , crores and Rs. crores of capital-work-in-progress as at March . Further, the Auto
CGU has Rs. , crores of development expenditure capitalized, and
Rs. crores of intangible assets under development. Our audit procedures included: Changes in business environment, including market or economic
environment, geopolitical situation and general inflationary trend could
have a significant impact on the valuation of the tangible and intangible
assets of the Auto CGU. The tangible and intangible assets of the Auto CGU
are tested for impairment periodically. The Company assesses the carrying
amounts of the tangible and intangible assets to determine indicators of
impairment loss as the recoverable values rely on certain assumptions and
estimates of future performance which impact the valuation. If any such
indication exists, the recoverable amount which is the higher of VIU or fair
value less cost to sell of the Auto CGU, is estimated and the impairment
loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. The carrying amount
of the tangible and intangible assets of Auto CGU is reduced to its
recoverable amount.
See Note (g) to the Standalone financial statements. •	Assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
key controls in respect of the Company’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models;
•	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash flows
such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation and
growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived data,
past performances, consistency with the Board approved investment
plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Involved valuation specialists as applicable, to evaluate the
assumptions including the discount rates used in VIU calculations;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management;
•	Evaluated the stage of development of the intangible assets,
judgments used for expected probable economic benefits and
associated expenditures, and their assessment of feasibility of the
projects; and
•	Assessed the adequacy of disclosures on key judgements, assumptions
and quantitative data with respect to impairment losses. Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Company’s annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. The Company’s annual report
is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Company’s annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the
matter to those charged with governance and take necessary actions, as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in Section () of the Act with respect to the
preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/ loss and other comprehensive
income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Management and Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
•	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section ()(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made
by the Management and Board of Directors.
•	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in
preparation of standalone financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related
to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a
going concern.
•	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether
the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine
that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
.	As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
Section () of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs and of the Order, to the
extent applicable.
. A. As required by Section () of the Act, we report that: a.	We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary
for the purposes of our audit. b.	In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
examination of those books. c.	The standalone balance sheet, the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the
standalone statement of changes in equity and the standalone statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in
agreement with the books of account. d.	In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section of the Act. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS e.	On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March taken on record by the Board
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March from being appointed as a director in terms of Section
() of the Act. f.	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Company and the
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure B”. B.	With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule of the Companies
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, , in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: a.	The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at March on its financial position in its standalone
financial statements - Refer Note to the standalone financial statements. b.	The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses,
if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note to the standalone financial statements. c.	There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by
the Company. d. (i) The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the Note to
the standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or
share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary
shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of
the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (ii)	The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been received by the
Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (iii)	Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule
(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material misstatement. e.	The final dividend paid by the Company during the year, in respect of the same declared for the previous year, is in accordance
with Section of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend. As stated in Note to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company has proposed final dividend
for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend declared is
in accordance with Section of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend. C. f.	As proviso to rule () of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, is applicable for the Company only with effect from April, , reporting under Rule (g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, is not applicable.
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section () of the Act: In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the Company to its directors
during the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is not
in excess of the limit laid down under Section of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details under
Section () of the Act which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W- Place : Mumbai
Date : May, Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJH2095 MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ report on the standalone financial statements of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March (Referred to in paragraph under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(i) (a) (i) (A)	The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of Property, Plant and
Equipment.
(B) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets. (b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has a regular programme of physical verification of its Property, Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant and equipment are verified
once in three years. In accordance with this programme, certain property, plant and equipment were verified during the year. In our opinion,
this periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. No material
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
(c)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the title deeds
of immovable properties (other than immovable properties where the Company is the lessee and the leases agreements are duly executed in
favour of the lessee) disclosed in the standalone financial statements are held in the name of the Company.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during the year.
(e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there are no
proceedings initiated or pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions
Act, and rules made thereunder. (ii) (a)	The inventory, except goods-in-transit and stocks lying with third parties, has been physically verified by the management during the year.
For stocks lying with third parties at the year-end, written confirmations have been obtained and for goods-in-transit subsequent evidence of
receipts has been linked with inventory records. In our opinion, the frequency of such verification is reasonable and procedures and coverage
as followed by management were appropriate. No discrepancies were noticed on verification between the physical stocks and the book records
that were more than % in the aggregate of each class of inventory
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks or financial institutions on the basis of
security of current assets. In our opinion, the quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company with such banks or financial institutions
are in agreement with the books of account of the Company. (iii)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company has
not given any security or advance in nature of loans to companies, firms, limited liability partnership or any other parties during the year. The
Company has made investments, provided guarantee and granted unsecured loans, to companies and other parties in respect of which the requisite
information is as below. The Company has not made investments, provided guarantees and granted loans in firms or limited liability partnership.
(a)	Based on the audit procedures carried on by us and as per the information and explanations given to us the Company has provided loans or
stood guarantee to any other entity as below:
Rs in crores
Particulars Guarantees Loans Aggregate amount during the year Subsidiaries Others — Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date Subsidiaries Others — (b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures conducted by us, in our opinion the investments
made and guarantees provided and the terms and conditions of the grant of loans and guarantees provided during the year are, prima facie,
not prejudicial to the interest of the Company. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS (c)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, in the case of
loans given, in our opinion the repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and the repayments or receipts have been
regular. Further, the Company has not given any advance in the nature of loan to any party during the year.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there is no
overdue amount for more than ninety days in respect of loans given. Further, the Company has not given any advances in the nature of loans
to any party during the year.
(e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there is no loan
or advance in the nature of loan granted falling due during the year, which has been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle
the overdues of existing loans given to same parties.
(f)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of
repayment.
(iv)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of records of the Company, in respect of investments
made, loans and guarantees given by the Company, in our opinion the provisions of Section and of the Companies Act, (“the Act”)
have been complied with.
(v)	The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits from the public. Accordingly, clause (v) of the Order is
not applicable.
(vi)	We have broadly reviewed the books of accounts maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by the Central Government for
maintenance of cost records under Section () of the Act in respect of its manufactured goods and are of the opinion that prima facie, the
prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. However, we have not carried out a detailed examination of the records with a
view to determine whether these are accurate or complete.
(vii) (a)	The Company does not have liability in respect of Service tax, Duty of excise, Sales tax and Value added tax during the year since effective July , these statutory dues has been subsumed into GST. According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, in our opinion
amounts deducted / accrued in the books of account in respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Service Tax, Provident
Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited by
the Company with the appropriate authorities. According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, no undisputed
amounts payable in respect of Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or
other statutory dues were in arrears as at March for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, statutory dues
relating to Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues
which have not been deposited on account of any dispute are as follows:
Name of the statute Nature of
the dues Amount
(Rs. In crores) Period to which the amount
relates Forum where dispute is pending Income Tax Act, Income Tax . A.Y. -, A.Y. -,
A.Y. -, A.Y. - and
A.Y. - Assessing Officer . A.Y. -, A.Y. -,
A.Y. -, and A.Y. - CIT(A) ,. A.Y. - and A.Y. - Income Tax Appellate Tribunal . - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . - High Court . - and - Appellate Authority-Tribunal - Supreme Court Central Excise Act, Duty of
Excise ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Name of the statute Nature of
the dues Amount
(Rs. In crores) Period to which the amount
relates Forum where dispute is pending Sales Tax and Value
Added Tax Sales Tax . - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . - High Court . - Appellate Authority-Revisional Board . - and - Appellate Authority-Tribunal Finance Act, Service Tax . - Appellate Authority-Tribunal Customs Act, Duty of
Customs . - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . - and - Appellate Authority-Tribunal . - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . - Appellate Authority-Tribunal GST Act, GST (viii)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company has
not surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of account, in the tax assessments under the Income
Tax Act, as income during the year.
(ix) (a)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not defaulted in repayment of loans and borrowing or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or government authority.
(c)	According to the information and explanations given to us by the management, the Company has not obtained any term loans during the year.
Accordingly, clause (ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the balance sheet of the Company, we report that
no funds raised on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
(e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the standalone financial statements of the
Company, we report that the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as defined under the Act.
(f)	According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, we report that the Company has not raised loans
during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate companies (as defined under the Act). (x) (a)	The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments). Accordingly,
clause (x)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the year. Accordingly,
clause (x)(b) of the Order is not applicable. (xi) (a)	Based on examination of the books and records of the Company and according to the information and explanations given to us, considering
the principles of materiality outlined in Standards on Auditing, we report that no fraud by the Company or on the Company has been noticed
or reported during the course of the audit.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under sub-section () of Section of the Act has been filed by the
auditors in Form ADT- as prescribed under Rule of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, with the Central Government.
(c)	We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while determining the nature, timing
and extent of our audit procedures. (xii)	According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, clause (xii) of the Order is not
applicable. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS (xiii)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the transactions with related parties are in compliance with
Section and of the Act, where applicable, and the details of the related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial
statements as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) (a)	Based on information and explanations provided to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the Company has an internal audit system
commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
(b) We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date for the period under audit. (xv)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with
its directors or persons connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) (a)	The Company is not required to be registered under Section -IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, . Accordingly, clause (xvi)(a) of the
Order is not applicable.
(b)	The Company is not required to be registered under Section -IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, . Accordingly, clause (xvi)(b) of the
Order is not applicable.
(c)	The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly,
clause (xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(d)	According to the information and explanations provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank)
Directions, ) has more than one CIC as part of the Group. The Group has four CICs as part of the Group. (xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, clause (xviii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xix)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation of
financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as
on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they
fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the
Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when
they fall due. Also refer to the Other Information paragraph of our main audit report which explains that the other information comprising the information
included in the Company’s annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
(xx)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount under sub-section () of Section of
the Act pursuant to any project. Accordingly, clauses (xx)(a) and (xx)(b) of the Order are not applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W- Place : Mumbai
Date : May, Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJH2095 MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ report on the standalone financial statements of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March  Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of
Sub-section of Section of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph (A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“the Company”) as of March in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements and such internal
financial controls were operating effectively as at March , based on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria
established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets,
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial
information, as required under the Act.
A
 uditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section () of the Act, to the extent
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that () pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
() provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations
of management and directors of the company; and () provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the standalone financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W- Place : Mumbai
Date : May, Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJH2095 COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Balance Sheet | as at 31st March, Rupees crores
Note No. I. ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment......................................................................................................................................................................
Capital work-in-progress.....................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets under development......................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Loans..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................
Income tax assets (net)......................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current assets..................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents.................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents...................................................................................................
(v) Loans..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(vi) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................
Other current assets............................................................................................................................................................................................
Assets held for sale ............................................................................................................................................................................................ II. TOTAL ASSETS.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital...............................................................................................................................................................................................
Other equity................................................................................................................................................................................................................
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax liabilities (net).............................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Lease liabilities ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Trade payables
(a) Total outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises......................................................
(b)	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises.....
(iv) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................
Other current liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Current tax liabilities (net)..............................................................................................................................................................................
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale................................................................................ TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES............................................................................................................................................................
The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached. [Refer note (B)] ,.
.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
.
,.
.
,.
,. ,.
.
,.
.
,.
,. ,. ,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,. ,.
,.
.
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,. .
,.
,. .
,.
,. ,.
.
.
,.
,.
.
,. ,.
.
.
.
,.
.
,. ,.
. .
. .
,.
,.
,.
.
.
.
,.
,. .
,.
,.
,.
.
.
—
,.
,. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Membership No : Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - )
Mumbai, 26th May, Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Statement of Profit and Loss | for the period ended 31st March, Rupees crores
Note No. [Refer note (B)]
,. INCOME
Revenue from operations................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. Other income............................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Total income............................................................................................................................................................................................................
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed.......................................................................................................................................................................... Purchases of stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress....................................................... (,.) (.) Employee benefits expense............................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Finance costs............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Other expenses....................................................................................................................................................................................................... Total expenses......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit before exceptional items and tax........................................................................................................................................
Exceptional items (net)...................................................................................................................................................................................... Profit before tax.................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. (,.) (.) ,. ,.
,. Tax expense
Current tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. Deferred tax.................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) . ,. ,. Profit for the year..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
A. (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (a) Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans.......................................................................................... (.) . (b) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income................................................................ . (.) (ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss....................................... . (.) (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
(.) B. (a) Debt instruments through other comprehensive income................................................................... (.) (b)	Effective portion of gains and losses on designated portion of hedging instruments
in a cash flow hedge...................................................................................................................................................... . . (ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss................................................. (.) (.) Total other comprehensive income/(loss)..................................................................................................................................... (.) . Total comprehensive income for the year.................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Earnings per equity share:
(Face value Rs. /- per share) (Rupees)
Basic................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Diluted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Membership No : Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - )
Mumbai, 26th May, Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, —
—
— —
—
—
— —
—
—
.
—
—
—
—
(.)
. Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss).......................... Total Comprehensive Income for the year..... Dividend paid on Equity Shares................................... Exercise of employee stock options........................... Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
Trust to Employees............................................................... On account of employee stock options lapsed..... Share based payment to employees.......................... Transfer to retained earnings...................................... Shares allotted........................................................................... As at March, .................................................... . — ,. — ,. — — — . — — — — — — ,. . — — — — — — — — — — . . — . (.) — (.) — — — — . ,. — . — — — — (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Retained
Earnings (.) — — — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Debt
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income (.) — (.) — — — — — . . — (.) Equity
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income Total . — — — — — — — . . — ,. (.) — . — (.) . (,.) ,. (.) ,. (.) ,. Effective
portion of
Cash Flow
Hedges
[Note ..(c)] Items of other comprehensive income STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS — — — (.) . — — — — ,. Share
Option
Outstanding
Account BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT st — — Profit for the year................................................................... — . Debenture
Redemption
Reserve Rupees crores CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE . General
Reserve
(refer note b) Reserves and Surplus . . MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS As at 1st April, ........................................................... Securities
Premium
(refer note a) Balance as at the end of the year............................................................................................ Capital
Reserve .
. Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement....................................................... Share
Pending
Issuance . Add: Allotment of shares by M&M ESOP Trust to Employees............................... BOARD’S
REPORT (B) Other Equity —
. . Restated balance.................................................................................................................................... — — Changes in equity share capital due to prior period error....................................... . . Rupees crores COMPANY
OVERVIEW Balance as at the beginning of the year.............................................................................. Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up :........................................................................................... (A) Equity Share Capital Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS —
—
. Share based payment to employees........................ As at 31st March, ....................................................
,. — — (.) . — — — — — . ,. Securities
Premium
(refer note a) ,. — . — — — — — — — — ,. General
Reserve
(refer note b) . — — — — — — — — — — . Debenture
Redemption
Reserve Reserves and Surplus . . (.) — (.) — — — — — . . Share
Option
Outstanding
Account ,. — — — — (.) (,.) ,. . ,. (.) ,. Retained
Earnings (.) . — (.) . (.) (,.) ,. . ,. Securities premium: Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The fair value of employee stock options is recognised in Securities Premium once the shares have been allotted on exercise of
the options. General reserve: General reserve comprises of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. The reserve can be distributed/utilised by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act, . (iii) th Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - ) Narayan Shankar Manoj Bhat Rajesh Jejurikar Anish Shah Anand G. Mahindra Mumbai, 26th May, Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Group Chief Financial Officer Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) (DIN - ) Managing Director and CEO (DIN - ) Chairman (DIN - ) Integrated Annual Report - Mumbai, May, Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No : For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W- In terms of our report attached. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (b)	The share capital of the Company has also been reduced and the securities premium increased by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) for the ,,, bonus shares of Rs. each (: ,,, bonus shares of
Rs. each) issued by the Company in December, to the M&M ESOP Trust but not yet transferred by the M&M ESOP Trust to the employees. (a)	The Company has reduced the share capital by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) and securities premium by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) for the ,,, shares of Rs. each (: ,,,
shares of Rs. each) held by the M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees. Notes: (vi)	Share option outstanding account: Share option outstanding account represents reserve in respect of equity settled share options granted to the Company’s employees in pursuance of the Employee Stock Option Plan. (v)	Debenture redemption reserve: Debenture redemption reserve is a statutory reserve (as per Companies Act, ) created out of profits of the Company available for payment of dividend for the purpose of redemption of
Debentures issued by the Company. On completion of redemption, the reserve is transferred to retained earnings. (iv)	Retained earnings: Retained earnings comprises of accumulated balance of profits/(losses) of current and prior years including transfers made to / from other reserves from time to time. The reserve can be utilized or distributed
by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, . Capital reserve: Capital reserve mainly represents the amount of net assets acquired over and above consideration paid consequent to the scheme of arrangement. (.) ,. — — — — — — . . — — (.) ,. Total (i) (.) — — — — . — (.) (.) — — (.) Effective
portion of
Cash Flow
Hedges
[Note ..(c)] Rupees crores (ii) Description of the nature and purpose of Other Equity: The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements. (C) (.) — — — — — — (.) (.) — — . Equity
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income Items of other comprehensive income
Debt
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income Remeasurement loss (net) on defined benefit plans Rs. . crores ( : Gain of Rs. . crores) has been recognised during the year as part of retained earnings. . — — — — On account of employee stock options lapsed... — Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
Trust to Employees ............................................................ — Dividend paid on Equity Shares (including tax
thereon) ...................................................................................... — — — — Total Comprehensive Income for the year..... . — Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss).......................... — . Exercise of employee stock options........................... — — . Profit for the year................................................................... . Capital
Reserve Transfer to retained earning ........................................ — Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note (B)] ............................................................... Share
Pending
Issuance As at 1st April, ........................................................... (B) Other Equity (contd.) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the years presented. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised and future periods affected. Key sources of estimation uncertainty at the date of financial statements, which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities within the next financial year, is in respect of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, provision for product
warranties, fair value of financial assets/liabilities and impairment of investments. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year are discussed below: (i) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets The Company reviews the useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets at the end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in depreciation and amortisation expense in future periods. (ii) Provision for product warranties The Company recognises provision for warranties in respect of the products that it sells. Provisions are discounted, where necessary, to its
present value based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. These are reviewed at each balance
sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates. (iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities and investments The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities on fair value basis at each balance sheet date or at the time they are assessed
for impairment. Fair value measurement that are based on significant unobservable inputs (Level ) requires estimates of operating margin,
discount rate, future growth rate, terminal values, etc. based on management’s best estimate about future developments. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.) (iv) Impairment of investments The Company assesses impairment of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are recorded at cost. At the time when
there are any indications that such investments have suffered a loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss. The recoverable
amount requires estimates of operating margin, discount rate, future growth rate, terminal values, etc. based on management’s best estimate.
(e) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment,
if any. Cost includes financing cost relating to borrowed funds attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying tangible assets upto the date
the assets are ready for use. Depreciation is provided on straight-line basis for property, plant and equipment so as to expense the depreciable amount, i.e. the cost less
estimated residual value, over its estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and the effect of any
changes in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis. When an asset is scrapped or otherwise disposed off, the cost and related depreciation are removed from the books of account and resultant profit
or loss, if any, is reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The management’s estimate of useful lives are in accordance with Schedule II to the Companies Act, , other than the following asset classes,
based on the Company’s expected usage pattern supported by technical assessment: (f) Asset Class Useful lives (i) Certain items of Plant and Equipment - years as the case may be. (ii) Buildings (Roads) years (iii) Vehicles years Intangible assets
Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis so as to reflect the pattern in which the asset’s economic benefits
are consumed. Intangible assets under development The Company expenses costs incurred during research phase to profit or loss in the year in which they are incurred. Development phase expenses
are initially recognised as intangible assets under development until the development phase is complete, upon which the amount is capitalised as
intangible asset. Intangible assets i) Technical Knowhow The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit, commencing with the year of purchase of the technology. ii) Development Expenditure The expenditure incurred on technical services and other project/product related expenses are amortised over the estimated period of benefit,
not exceeding months. iii) Brand license fee The expenditure incurred is amortised over the period of relevant licence fee or the estimated period of benefit, whichever is lower. Software Expenditure iv) The expenditure incurred is amortised over three financial years equally commencing from the year in which the expenditure is incurred. v) Others
The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit. The amortisation period for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed annually and changes in expected useful lives are treated
as changes in estimates. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)
(g) Impairment of assets At the end of each reporting period, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant & equipment, intangible assets and investments
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any
such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use or fair value less cost to sell, of the asset or cash-generating
unit, as the case may be, is estimated and impairment loss (if any) is recognised and the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. In
assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been
adjusted. When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate
of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) earlier. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and
whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
(h) Inventories Inventories comprise all costs of purchase, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Raw materials and bought out components are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the basis of the weighted
average method. Finished goods produced, stock in trade, manufactured components and work-in-progress are carried at cost or net realisable value whichever
is lower. Stores, spares and tools other than obsolete and slow moving items are carried at cost. Obsolete and slow moving items are valued at cost or
estimated net realisable value, whichever is lower.
(i) Foreign exchange transactions and translation Transactions in foreign currencies i.e. other than the Company’s functional currency of Indian Rupees are recognised at the rates of exchange
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated
at the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value is determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms
of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period
in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions entered into in order to hedge certain foreign currency risks (refer policy on
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting).
(j)	Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (k) The Company accounts for its equity investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment, if any.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition
or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are
added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately
in profit or loss. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price. Classification and subsequent measurement Financial assets All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or
sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention
in the marketplace. All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their
respective classification. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.) On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as - measured at: — Amortised cost; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - debt investment; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - equity investment; or — Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition, except if and in the period the Company changes its business model
for managing financial assets. All financial assets not classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets
unless designated as effective hedge instruments which are accounted as per hedge accounting requirements discussed below. Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured at amortised cost using effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced
by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment expenses are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain and
loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees paid or received
that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the
debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. Debt investment at FVTOCI are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income under effective interest method, foreign exchange gains
and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Other net gains and losses are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). On
derecognition, gains and losses accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss. For equity investments other than investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, the Company makes an election on an
instrument-by-instrument basis to designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. These elected investments are measured at fair
value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the reserves.
The cumulative gain or loss is not reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the investments. These equity investments are not held for
trading. Dividend income received on such equity investments are recognised in profit or loss. Equity investments that are not designated to be measured at Cost or FVTOCI are designated to be measured at FVTPL. Subsequent changes
in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. Financial liabilities and equity instruments Debt and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the
contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity
instruments issued by the Company is recognised at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as
held-for-trading or it is a derivative (that does not meet hedge accounting requirements) or it is designated as such on initial recognition. Other
financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Interest expense and foreign exchange gains
and losses are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss. Derecognition of financial assets The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the
rights to receive the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another party. If the Company neither
transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Company recognises
its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for the amount it may have to pay. If the Company enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognised on its balance sheet, but retains either all or substantially all
of the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are not derecognised and the proceeds received are recognised as a
collateralised borrowing. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.) Offsetting Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Company currently
has a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the
liability simultaneously. Financial guarantee contracts A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because
a specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are initially measured at their fair values and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently
measured at the higher of: • the amount of loss allowance determined in accordance with impairment requirements of Ind AS ; and •	the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of
Ind AS . Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Company enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to manage its
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts that are not financial assets within the
scope of Ind AS are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the
end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective
as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the
nature of the hedged item. The Company designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or
cash flow hedges. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Company documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and
on an ongoing basis, the Company documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows
of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Changes in fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in profit or loss immediately, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other
comprehensive income and accumulated under hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the
profit or loss. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (relating to effective portion as described above) are
reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss
accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss. Impairment of financial assets The Company applies the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for recognising impairment loss on financial assets. With respect to trade receivables
and loans, the Company measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets. For debt securities at
FVTOCI, the loss allowance is recognised in OCI and is not reduced from the carrying amount of the financial asset in the balance sheet. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This
is generally the case when the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash
flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities under
the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)
(l) Revenue Recognition
Sale of goods or services The Company recognises revenue from sale of goods or services at the amount of transaction price (excluding variable consideration that is
constrained), that is allocated to the performance obligation satisfied. Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Company
expects it to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. An
amount of consideration can vary because of discounts, rebates, incentives etc. which are explicitly stated in the contract or are as per customary
business practices. The consideration can also vary where the entitlement is contingent on occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event. The
Company includes variable consideration as part of transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Variable consideration is estimated using the expected value method or the most likely amount depending on which method the Company expects
to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled and is applied consistently throughout the contract. Payment terms agreed with a customer are as per business practice and the financing component, if significant, is separated from the transaction
price and accounted as interest income. Dividend and interest income Dividend from investments are recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the amount of
income can be measured reliably.
(m) Government Grants The Company, directly or indirectly through a consortium of Mahindra Group Companies, is entitled to various incentives from government authorities
in respect of manufacturing units located in developing regions. The Company accounts for its entitlement as income on accrual basis. Government grants that are revenue in nature, are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Company
recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. The benefit of a government loan at a below market-rate of interest is treated as government grant and is measured as the difference between
proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on prevailing market interest rates.
(n) Employee Benefits
Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund The Company’s contribution paid / payable during the year to Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund are recognised in profit or loss. Provident Fund Contributions to Provident Fund are made to a Trust administered by the Company/Regional Provident Fund Commissioners and are charged to
profit or loss as incurred. The Company is liable for the contribution and any shortfall in interest between the amount of income realised by the
investments and the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India in respect of the Trust administered by the
Company. The shortfall and remeasurement thereof, if any, based on actuarial valuation is recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). Long term Compensated Absences Company’s liability towards long term compensated absences are determined by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. Gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes Company’s liability towards gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes are determined by independent
actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. Past services are recognised at the earlier of the plan amendment/curtailment and the recognition
of related restructuring costs/termination benefits. The obligation on long term compensated absences and defined benefit plans are measured at the present value of estimated future cash flows
using a discount rate that is determined by reference to the market yields at the balance sheet date on government bonds where the currency
and terms of the government bonds are consistent with the currency and estimated terms of the obligation. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.) Remeasurement gains/losses Remeasurement of defined benefit plans, comprising of actuarial gains or losses, return on plan assets excluding interest income are recognised
immediately in balance sheet with corresponding debit or credit to other comprehensive income. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or
loss in subsequent period. Remeasurement gains or losses on long term compensated absences that are classified as other long term benefits are recognised in profit or loss. Share based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the
Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity.
(o) Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take
a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Interest income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit
or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
(p) Income taxes Current tax Current tax is determined as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable income for the year. The Company’s current tax is calculated using
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying values of assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the
manner in which the Company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets including that on unused tax losses and unused tax credits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
income will be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Current and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or
directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the
business combination.
(q) Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Company
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is
the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount
is the present value of these cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material). Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations are recognised at the time of sale of the relevant products, at the best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the Company’s obligation. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)
(r) Business Combination Business Combination under common control are accounted under “the pooling of interest method” i.e. in accordance with Appendix C in Ind AS Business combinations, at carrying amount of assets and liabilities acquired and any excess of consideration issued over the net assets acquired is
recognised as capital reserve on common control business combination.
(s) Leases The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS and this may require significant judgment.
The Company also uses significant judgement in assessing the lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the applicable discount rate. The Company determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both periods covered by an option to extend or
terminate the lease if the Company is reasonably certain based on relevant facts and circumstances that the option to extend or terminate will be
exercised. If there is a change in facts and circumstances, the expected lease term is revised accordingly. The discount rate is generally based on the interest rate specific to the lease being evaluated or if that cannot be easily determined the incremental
borrowing rate for similar term is used. The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a
straight-line basis over the lease term. The Company as a lessee The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus
any initial direct costs incurred and restoration cost, less any lease incentives received. The right-of-use assets are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. In
addition, the right-of-use asset is reduced by impairment losses, if any. The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost at the present value of the future lease payments. When a lease liability is remeasured,
the corresponding adjustment of the lease liability is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
(t) Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. To classify as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, its sale must
be highly probable and is marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. The Group must also be committed to
the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. Non-current assets
and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
. Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
 inistry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
M
Rules as issued from time to time. On March , , MCA amended the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, by issuing the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, , applicable from April 1st, , as below:
)	
Ind AS – Presentation of Financial Statements: The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting policies rather than
their significant accounting policies. Accounting policy information, together with other information included in an entity’s financial statements, is
material when it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions of primary users of general purpose financial statements. The Company does
not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
)	Ind AS – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: The amendments will help entities to distinguish between
accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition of a change in accounting estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting
estimates. Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to measurement
uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in financial statements to be measured in a way that involves
measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
)	Ind AS – Income Taxes: The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and decommissioning
obligations. The amendments narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs and of Ind AS (recognition exemption) so
that it no longer applies to transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary differences. The Company
does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment comprise of owned and leased assets that do not meet the definition of Investment property.
Rupees crores
Particulars (a) Property, plant and equipment (owned)......................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (b) Right of use assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (a) Property, plant and equipment (owned)
Rupees crores Particulars Land –
Freehold Furniture
and
Fixtures Aircraft . . .
— Buildings Plant and
Office
Equipment Equipment Balance as at 1st April, ......................................... . Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note (B)] .............................................................. . . . . . Additions/Transfer from CWIP during the year...... . . ,. . . Disposals/Transfer during the year .............................. . . . . . ,. ,. Vehicles Total . ,.
. . — . ,. — . . Balance as at March, .................................. . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ......................................... . ,. ,. . . . . ,. st Additions/Transfer from CWIP during the year...... . . ,. . . — . ,. Disposals during the year..................................................... . . . . . — . . . . . Reclassified as held for sale................................................ . . . . — Balance as at 31st March, .................................. . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ......................................... — . ,. . . . . ,. Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note (B)] .............................................................. — . . . . — . . Depreciation expense for the year................................. — . ,. . . . . ,. Disposals/Transfer during the year .............................. — . . . . — . . Impairment during the year $............................................ — — . — — — . . Balance as at March, .................................. — ,. ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at April, ......................................... — ,. ,. . . . . ,. Depreciation expense for the year................................. — . ,. . . . . ,. Impairment during the year #............................................ — — . . . — . . Accumulated depreciation & impairment st st Disposals during the year..................................................... — . . . . — . . Reclassified as held for sale................................................ — . . . . — . . Balance as at 31st March, .................................. — ,. ,. . . . . ,. Net carrying amount
Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ........ . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Notes:
a. Additions during the year includes borrowing costs capitalised Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores). b. Buildings include Rs. * crores ( : Rs. * crores) being the value of shares in co-operative housing societies. $ Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as depreciation, amortisation and Impairment expenses. # Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.[Refer Note ] * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Property, Plant and Equipment (contd.)
(b) Right of use assets Rupees crores
Land Buildings Others
(refer note
below) Total Balance as at 1st April, ............................................................................................................ . . . . Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note (B)] ............................. . — — . Additions during the year ...................................................................................................................... . . . . Deductions during the year .................................................................................................................. — . . . Particulars Cost Balance as at 31st March, ..................................................................................................... . . . . Balance as at 1st April, ......................................................................................................... . . . . Additions during the year ...................................................................................................................... . . . . Deductions during the year .................................................................................................................. — . . . Balance as at March, ..................................................................................................... . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ............................................................................................................ . . . . Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note (B)] ............................. . — — . Amortisation expense for the year................................................................................................... . . . . st Accumulated amortisation Deductions during the year .................................................................................................................. — . . . Balance as at 31st March, ..................................................................................................... . . . . Balance as at 1st April, ......................................................................................................... . . . . Amortisation expense for the year................................................................................................... . . . . Deductions during the year.................................................................................................................... — . . . Impairment during the year #............................................................................................................... — — . . Balance as at March, ..................................................................................................... . . . . Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ......................................................................... . . . . Net carrying amount as at March, .................................................................. . . . . st Net carrying amount
st Note:
Others include Plant & Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture & Fixtures.
#
. Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items. [Refer Note ] Capital-work-in-progress (CWIP)
Particulars Rupees crores Opening Balance
Additions during the year...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Addition during the year - due to interest capitalisation............................................................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note (B)].........................................................................................................................
Total Additions during the year............................................................................................................................................................................................... ,.
,.
.
—
,. ,.
,.
.
.
,. Deletions during the year
Transfer to property, plant and equipment...........................................................................................................................................................................
Deletions during the year..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Impairment during the year #.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Deletions during the year............................................................................................................................................................................................... ,.
.
.
.
,. ,.
.
—
—
,. Closing Balance...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. Cost . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) (contd.)
Ageing of capital work in progress Rupees crores Particulars Amount in CWIP for a period of As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
(a) Projects temporarily suspended : Exceeded cost or overdue............................
(b) Projects temporarily suspended : Other than covered in above (a).............
Total........................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
(a) Projects temporarily suspended : Exceeded cost or overdue............................
(b) Projects temporarily suspended : Other than covered in above (a).............
Total ..................................................................................................................................................................... Less than year - years - years More than years Total .
—
—
. .
—
—
. .
—
—
. .
—
—
. .
—
—
. ,.
—
—
,. .
—
—
. .
—
—
. .
—
—
. ,.
—
—
,. # Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.[Refer Note ]
. Intangible Assets
Particulars Rupees crores
Development
Expenditure
(Internally
Generated) Brand
Licences Computer
Software Others
(refer note b) Total ,. . . . ,. . — . — . ,.
,.
,.
,. —
—
.
. .
.
.
. —
—
.
. ,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
.
.
,. —
—
—
. .
.
.
. .
—
—
. ,.
.
.
,. ,. . . . ,. .
.
,.
.
,.
,.
,.
.
.
.
,. —
.
—
—
.
.
.
—
—
—
. .
.
.
—
.
.
.
.
.
.
. —
.
—
—
.
.
.
—
—
—
. .
.
,.
.
,.
,.
,.
.
.
.
,. ,.
,. .
. .
. .
. ,.
,. Cost
Balance as at 1st April, ...................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note (B)] ............................................................................................
Additions/Transfer from Intangibles assets under
development during the year.......................................................................
Deductions/Transfer during the year ....................................................
Balance as at 31st March, ..........................................................
Balance as at 1st April, ................................................................
Additions/Transfer from Intangibles under
development during the year.......................................................................
Deductions during the year...........................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale..........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, ..........................................................
Accumulated amortisation & impairment
Balance as at 1st April, ...................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note (B)]..............................................................................................
Amortisation expense for the year..........................................................
Deductions/Transfer during the year......................................................
Impairment during the year $......................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, ............................................................
Balance as at 1st April, ...................................................................
Amortisation expense for the year..........................................................
Impairment during the year #......................................................................
Deductions during the year...........................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale..........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, ............................................................
Net carrying amount
Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ..................................
Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ........................... Notes:a. Additions during the year includes Borrowing costs capitalised Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores).
b. Others include trade marks, transferable development rights etc.
$
Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as depreciation, amortisation and impairment expenses
#
Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items. [Refer Note ] MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Intangible assets under development Rupees crores Particulars
Opening Balance....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Additions during the year
Addition during the period.................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Addition during the period - due to Interest Capitalisation.......................................................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note (B)].........................................................................................................................
Total Additions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deletions during the year
Transfer to Intangible Asset.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deletion during the year.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Impairment during the year #.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Deletions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Closing Balance...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,.
.
—
,. ,.
.
.
,. ,.
.
.
.
,.
,. ,.
.
—
.
,.
,. Ageing of intangible assets under development Rupees crores Particulars Amount in Intangible assets under development for a period of As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
Total .....................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
Total ..................................................................................................................................................................... Less than year - years - years More than years Total .
. .
. .
. .
. ,.
,. ,.
,. .
. .
. .
. ,.
,. # Out of impairment losses recognised in the statement of profit and loss, Rs. . crores (: Rs. Nil) and Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores)
has been recognised in exceptional items and depreciation, amortisation and impairment expenses, respectively .
. Investments
A. Non-current investments Particulars Investments in Equity Instruments (fully paid-up)
Quoted
(A) At Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
Equity shares
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited...................
Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited...........................................................
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited..........................
Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited...................................
Mahindra Logistics Limited....................................................................
Swaraj Engines Limited **.........................................................................
(ii) Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores ,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
,, ,.
.
.
.
.
.
,. ,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
— ,.
.
.
.
.
—
,. —
,,,
,,, —
.
. ,,
,,,
,,, .
.
,. In Associate Companies
Equity shares
Swaraj Engines Limited **...............................................................
Tech Mahindra Limited......................................................................
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited @...................................... ,. ,. . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars (B) Designated and carried at FVTPL
In Other Companies
SsangYong Motor Company ##............................................................
(C) Designated and carried at FVTOCI
In Other Companies
Equity shares.................................................................................................. Unquoted
(A) At Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
Equity shares
Gromax Agri Equipment Limited............................................
Kota Farm Services Limited......................................................
Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited.............................
Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited............................................
Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary)
Limited......................................................................................................
Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited.................
Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited #.............................
Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited...............................
Mahindra Construction Company Limited.......................
Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited...........................
Mahindra Defence Systems Limited....................................
Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda.(quotas)...................
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited...............................
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited [Including
,,, partly paid Equity shares of Face
Value Rs. each partly paid to Re. each)..................
Mahindra eMarket Limited.........................................................
Mahindra Holdings Limited........................................................
Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius)
Limited
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services
Private Limited...................................................................................
Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l.:
– Class A shares.................................................................................
– Class B shares................................................................................
– Class C shares.................................................................................
– Class D shares................................................................................
Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited............................................
Mahindra USA Inc.
– Class A shares.................................................................................
– Class B shares................................................................................
Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited.............. Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores KRW , ,,, . ,,, — .
.
,. .
.
,. ,,
,,
,
,,, .
—
.
. ,,
,,
,
,,, .
—
.
. ZAR AUD ,,,
,, .
. ,,,
,, .
. ,.
,,,
. ,,,,,
,.
—
—
,,
—
,,
—
,,
.
,,,
.
,,,
,.
— ,.
.
—
.
—
.
.
.
— EUR ,,,
NA ,,,,,,,, ,,,
BDT — ,, — ,,,
BRL ,,, ,,,, ,,,,
,,
,,,, .
.
,. —
,,
,,,, —
.
,. US $ NA ,,,
,,, ,.
,. ,,,
,,, ,.
,. ,,, . ,,, . EUR EUR .
EUR .
EUR .
. ,,,
,,,,
,,,
,,,,
,,,, .
.
.
.
. ,,,
,,,,
,,,
,,,,
,,,, .
.
.
.
. US $ .
US $ . ,,,
,,,
,,, .
.
. ,,,
,,,
,,, .
.
. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly known as
Mahindra Intertrade Limited) [including ,,,
shares of Face value of Rs. Each partly paid-up
Rs. per share]...................................................................................
Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited..........................................
Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private
Limited.....................................................................................................
Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co.,
Limited :
– Equity share.....................................................................................
– Class A shares.................................................................................
M.I.T.R.A. Agro Equipments Private Limited#.................
NBS International Limited..........................................................
Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited......................
Sampo Rosenlew Oy #.................................................................
Officemartindia.com Limited.....................................................
Trringo.com Limited........................................................................
(ii) Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores ,,,
,,, .
. ,,,
,,, .
. ,, . ,, . NA
NA NA ,,
,,,
,,
,
,,
,,, .
.
.
.
.
.
—
.
,. —
,,,
—
—
,,
,,, .
.
—
.
—
—
—
.
,. In Trust Securities
M&M Benefit Trust..............................................................................
M&M Fractional Entitlement Trust...........................................
Sunrise Initiatives Trust ................................................................. (iii) In Associate Companies
Equity shares
PF Holdings B.V......................................................................................
PSL Media & Communications Limited..................................
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited ~..................................
ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited..............................
Preference shares
(classified as equity instruments)
Series C Preferred shares: Resson Aerospace
Corporation...............................................................................................
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited - Compulsorily
Convertible Preference shares - Series D1 CCPS ~...... (iv) In Joint Venture Companies
Equity shares
Carnot Technologies Private Limited...................................
Classic Legends Private Limited.............................................
M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited #.................
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited #..............................
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited.............................
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private
Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special
Steel Private Limited).....................................................................
Sampo Rosenlew Oy#....................................................................
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited ^^..... Number ,.
.
.
,. ,.
.
.
,. EUR ,,,
,
,,,
,,, .
.
.
.
. ,,,
,
,,,
,,, .
.
.
.
. NA ,, . ,, . ,,, .
.
. ,, .
.
. LKR ,
,,,
—
—
,,
— .
.
—
—
.
— ,
,,,
,,
,,,
,,
,, .
.
.
,.
.
. NA —
,,, —
.
. ,
,, .
.
,. . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars Preference shares
(classified as equity instruments)
Compulsory Convertible Cumulative Preference
shares: Carnot Technologies Private Limited .............
– Series A .............................................................................................
– Series B .............................................................................................
– Series C .............................................................................................
– Seed .....................................................................................................
Compulsorily Convertible Cumulative Participating
Preference shares: Smartshift Logistics Solutions
Private Limited:
– .% Series C ............................................................................
– .% Series C1 ........................................................................
Non
Cumulative
Compulsorily
Convertible
Preference shares: Zoomcar India Private Limited:
– .% Series P1 ..................................................................
– .% Series P2 .................................................................. (B) Designated and carried at FVTOCI
(i) In Other Companies
Gamaya SA:
– Irredeemable Preferred shares...............................................
– Common shares.................................................................................
TVS Automobile Solutions Private Limited:
Compulsorily Convertible Preference shares .................
Equity shares - others.......................................................................
Investments in Equity Instruments (Total).........................................
Investments in Debt instruments:
Unquoted
At Amortised Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
.% Non-Cumulative Redeemable Participating
Preference shares: Mahindra Construction Company
Limited .....................................................................................................
In Other Companies
Others ......................................................................................................
Investments in Debt Instruments (Total)............................................
Other Non Current Investments
Unquoted
Mandatorily measured and Carried at FVTPL:
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
.% Optionally Convertible Cumulative
Redeemable Preference shares : Mahindra Agri
Solutions Limited...............................................................................
.% Optionally Convertible Redeemable Bonds :
Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l.......... Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores ,
,
,
, .
.
.
. ,
,
,
, .
.
.
. ,,
,, .
. ,,
,, .
. ,,
,, .
—
.
. ,,
,, .
—
.
,. CHF CHF , —
— , —
— — —
.
.
,. ,, .
.
.
,. ,, —
— ,, —
— (ii) *
— *
— ,,, . ,,, . ,,,, .
. — —
. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars In Joint Venture Companies
.% Optionally Convertible Debenture:
Zoomcar India Private Limited.................................................
(iii) In Others
Investment in Alternate Investment Fund....................... Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores — — — — (ii) ,, .
.
.
,. .
.
.
,. Other Non-Current Investments (Total)...................................................
Total Non-Current Investments (Gross)...................................................
Less: Aggregate amount of impairment in value of
investments..........................................................................................................
(,.)
,.
Total Non-Current Investments (Net)........................................................
Other Disclosures
,.
(i) Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross).....................
Market Value of quoted investments................................................
,.
,.
(ii) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross)...............
Notes:
** Status has been changed from Associate to Subsidiary
* denotes amounts less than Rs. ,.
# Status has been changed from Joint Venture to Subsidiary
~ Face value has been reduced from to ^^ Bonus shares issued in the ratio of :
## Company renamed as “KG Mobility”, trading resumed on a stock exchange outside India post 31st March, @ Subsequent to 31st March, entire shares has been sold
B. (,.)
,.
,.
,.
,. Current investments Particulars
Quoted:
Mandatorily measured and carried at FVTPL
Investments in Mutual Funds..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Market Linked Debentures............................................................................................................................................................................
Designated and carried at FVTOCI
Investments in Equity Instruments..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Debentures and Bonds.....................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Government securities ................................................................................................................................................................................... Unquoted:
Carried at FVTOCI
Investments in Commercial Papers.............................................................................................................................................................................................
Carried at amortised cost
Investments in Corporate Fixed Deposits .............................................................................................................................................................................
Designated and carried at FVTOCI
Investments in Certificate of Deposits ...................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Current Investments
Other Disclosures
(i) Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross).............................................................................................................................................
Market Value of quoted investments............................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross)....................................................................................................................................... ,.
.
,. ,.
—
,. .
.
.
.
,. .
.
.
.
,. .
. —
— .
. .
. ,. . ,. ,. ,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Loans
Particulars
(a) Current . . ,. ,. Loans to related parties (refer note )
Unsecured considered good.............................................................................................................
Credit impaired ........................................................................................................................................ (b) Rupees crores
Non-Current . . . . . . ,. ,. Less: Loss Allowance .......................................................................................................................... . . . . Total (a)........................................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. . . . . Other Loans
Unsecured, considered good .........................................................................................................
Credit impaired ........................................................................................................................................
Less: Loss Allowance .......................................................................................................................... — . — — . . . . — . — — Total (b)........................................................................................................................................................ . . . . Total Loans................................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. (a)	Non current Loan to Related Parties includes Loan to Director Rs . crores ( : Rs . crores).
(b) Other Current and Non Current Loans mainly includes loans to employees and loans given to other companies.
(c)	Loans given to employees as per the Company’s policy are not considered for the purposes of disclosure under Section () of the
Companies Act, .
. Other Financial Assets
Particulars Rupees crores
Non-Current Current Security deposits................................................................................................................................................. . . . . Corporate Fixed Deposits ............................................................................................................................ — . — — Bank deposits with more than months maturity .............................................................. . . — — Interest accrued................................................................................................................................................... — — . . Other financial assets...................................................................................................................................... ,. . ,. . Derivative financial assets............................................................................................................................ — . . . Derivatives on Interest over Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures.................. . . — . Total Other Financial Assets.................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Carried at amortised cost: Carried at fair value: Other Financial Assets include receivables for oil royalty income, scrap sales, incentive receivables, share application money and other recoverable
expenses. Derivative financial assets includes foreign currency forwards, commodity derivatives in the nature of forward contracts, interest rate swaps and options.
. Other Non Financial Assets
Particulars Rupees crores
Non-Current Current Capital advances................................................................................................................................................... . . — — Other advances . . ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Total Other Non Financial Assets....................................................................................................... Other advances include advances to suppliers, prepaid expenses, export benefits receivable, other recoverable expenses, balances with government
authorities (other than income taxes) and Goods and Services Tax (GST) receivable and contract assets. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Inventories Rupees crores Particulars
Raw Materials and Bought-out Components [includes in transit Rs. . crores; : Rs. . crores]................ ,. ,. Work-in-Progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Finished Goods.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Stock-in-Trade [includes in transit Nil; : Rs. . crores]............................................................................................................................. . . Manufactured Components.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Stores and Spares................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Tools................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total Inventories................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (a)	The amount of inventories recognised as an expense is Rs. ,. crores ( : Rs. ,. crores) including Rs. . crores
( : Rs. . crores) in respect of write-down of inventories to net realisable value, and has been reduced by Rs. . crores ( :
Rs. . crores) in respect of the reversal of such write downs. Reversal in provision is due to sale and/or consumption of inventories provided for
in earlier years.
(b)	The Company has availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, some of which are
secured by hypothecation of inventories.
(c) Method of valuation of inventories is stated in Note (h). . Trade Receivables Rupees crores Particulars Unsecured, considered good............................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Credit impaired.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Less: Loss Allowance [(Refer Note - (b)]. .................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total Trade Receivables................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Ageing of trade receivables Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due Less than months months year - years - years More than years Total Undisputed trade receivables - considered good ................ ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables - credit impaired .................... — . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired ......................... — . . . . . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. As at 31st March, Less: Loss Allowance [Refer Note - (b)] .......................... (.) Total ................................................................................................................... ,. As at March, st Undisputed trade receivables - considered good ................ ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables - credit impaired .................... — . . . Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired ......................... — . . . . . . . . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Less: Loss Allowance ............................................................................... (.) Total ................................................................................................................... ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Cash & Cash Equivalents and Bank Balances Rupees crores Particulars – On Current accounts......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Fixed deposits with original maturity less than months..................................................................................................................................... . . ,. . Cheques, drafts on hand (including in transit)..................................................................................................................................................................... . . Cash on hand.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total Cash and cash equivalents............................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . Earmarked balances with banks.................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Balances with banks on margin accounts.............................................................................................................................................................................. . . Fixed deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total Other Bank balances........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. a) Cash and cash equivalents Balances with banks b) Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents . Assets held for sale In April, , the Company agreed to sell ,, Equity shares of Rs. each in Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (Formerly
known as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited) (‘SSSMIPL’) aggregating .% of paid-up Equity Share Capital of SSSMIPL to Sanyo Special
Steel Co., Ltd (“Sanyo”). The investment has been classified as ‘Asset Held for Sale’ as at 31st March, . The sale has been completed subsequent to
31st March, before the financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board. On 22nd March, , the Company has approved to sell/transfer assets and/or business pertaining to the Last Mile Mobility Business of the Company
to a new company to be incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The transaction is subject to customary approvals. Accordingly, the
identified assets and liabilities have been classified as ‘Held for Sale’ as at 31st March, in the Standalone Balance sheet.
. Equity Share Capital
Rupees crores
Particulars ,. ,. Authorised:
,,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each.............................................................................
,, Unclassified Shares of Rs. each (: ,,)................................................................................................................. . . ,,, Preference Shares of Rs. each (: ,,,)................................................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. . . Issued and Subscribed and Paid-up:
,,,, (: ,,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up...................................................
Less:
,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up issued to M&M ESOP Trust
but not yet allotted to employees.............................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital.................................................................................................................................... . . a. Reconciliation of number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares and amount outstanding:
Particulars No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores At the beginning of the year..................................................................................................... ,,,, . ,,,, . Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up :
Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement.................................................... ,, . — — ,,,, . ,,,, . ,,, . ,,, . Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital................................... ,,,, . ,,,, . Less: Shares issued to M&M ESOP Trust but not allotted to employees....... MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Equity Share Capital (contd.)
b. The Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company rank pari-passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend.
c.	Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by shareholders holding more than % of the aggregate Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up shares of the
Company:
Name of the Shareholder d. No.
of Shares Shareholding
% No.
of Shares Shareholding
% Prudential Management and Services Private Limited................................................ ,,, . ,,, . M&M Benefit Trust................................................................................................................................. ,,, . ,,, . Life Insurance Corporation of India............................................................................................ ,,, . ,,, . Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by Promoter and Promoter group:
Name of the Promoters No. Shareholding
of Shares
% % Change
during the
year No.
of Shares Shareholding
% % Change
during the
year Promoters:
Anand Mahindra ..................................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Keshub Mahindra ................................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Sub Total (A) .......................................................................... ,, .% ,, .% Anjali K Mahindra..................................................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% — Anuradha Mahindra................................................................ ,, .% — ,, .% — Dhruv S Sharma....................................................................... , .% — , .% — Deveshwar Jagat Sharma.................................................. , .% — , .% — Gautam P Khandelwal......................................................... , .% — , .% — Leena S Labroo......................................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% .% Nisheeta Labroo....................................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% .% Aneesha Labroo........................................................................ ,, .% — ,, .% — Radhika Nath.............................................................................. , .% — , .% — Sanjay Labroo............................................................................ ,, .% .% ,, .% — Sudha Keshub Mahindra..................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Uma R Malhotra....................................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Yuthica Keshub Mahindra.................................................. ,, .% .% ,, .% .% Kema Services International Private Limited...... ,, .% — ,, .% — Prudential Management and Services Private
Limited............................................................................................. ,,, .% — ,,, .% — M&M Benefit Trust................................................................. ,,, .% — ,,, .% — Sub Total (B) .......................................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Total (A+B) ............................................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Promoter Group: e. For the period of preceding five years as on the Balance Sheet date, Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital includes: i.	Aggregate of ,, (: ,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to scheme of arrangement
without payment being received in cash. ii. Aggregate of ,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Details of Dividends proposed:
Rupees crores
Particulars Dividend per share (Rupees)........................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Dividend on Equity Shares................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Total Dividend ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. . Borrowings
a) Long Term Borrowings
i) Non Current borrowings
Particulars Rupees crores Debentures........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Term loan from banks................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total Unsecured Borrowings............................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost): (a) Debentures: Rupees crores – .% p.a. Senior Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in July ............................... . . – .% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in September ............................... . . – .% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in June #............................................. . . – .% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in April, ............................................. — ,. – .% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in April, ............................................. — ,. Less: Unamortised finance cost ............................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. #	The Company and the debentures holders have call and put option respectively to redeem, in part or in full, the debentures on
8th June, and 8th June, . (b)	Term Loan from Banks: The Company has Unsecured Term Loan from banks which are repayable over a period of maximum five years upto May and carry
interest rates which is linked to Repo rate with % p.a.p.m. Certain loans have floor rate and ceiling rate defined such that the effective
interest rate would range between .% p.a.p.m. to .% p.a.p.m. (c)	Other loans mainly comprise of deferred sales tax loans which are interest free and repayable in five equal installments after ten years from
the year of availment of respective loan.
b) Short Term Borrowings
Particulars Rupees crores — . Commercial Papers .................................................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Current maturities of long term borrowings .......................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Total Short Term Borrowings.......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Secured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Loans and Advances on cash credit account from Banks .............................................................................................................................
Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost): The Company has also availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, which are
secured by hypothecation of inventories. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Borrowings (contd.)
b) Short Term Borrowings (contd.) Reconciliation of movement in borrowings to cash flows from financing activities
Rupees crores
Particulars – Long Term Borrowings........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Short Term Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Unclaimed matured Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total Opening Balance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. — . Opening balance a) Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer Note (B)]............................................................................................................. b) Cash flow movements c) – Proceeds from borrowings..................................................................................................................................................................................... — . – Repayment of borrowings...................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) (,.) (,.) – Effect of amortisation of loan origination costs.................................................................................................................................... . . – Foreign exchange translation............................................................................................................................................................................... — . Non-cash movements – Forward contract adjustment.............................................................................................................................................................................. — . . . – Long Term Borrowings........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Short Term Borrowings (other than loans repayable on demand)........................................................................................................ ,. . Closing Balance – Unclaimed matured Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total Closing Balance............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Other Financial Liabilities
Rupees crores
Particulars Non-Current Current Interest accrued and not due on borrowings................................................................................. — — . . Unclaimed dividends.......................................................................................................................................... — — . . Unclaimed matured deposits and interest accrued thereon................................................ — — . . Security Deposits................................................................................................................................................ . . — — Other liabilities ................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Derivative financial Liabilities...................................................................................................................... — — . . Derivatives on Interest in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures........................ . . — . Total other financial liabilities............................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. Carried at Amortised Cost: Carried at Fair Value: Other liabilities include salaries and wages payable, capital creditors, brand licenses payable, monies adjusted from share capital and other equity on
account of shares held by M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Provisions Rupees crores Particulars Non-Current Current Provision for Employee Benefits................................................................................................................ . . . . Provision for Warranty....................................................................................................................................... . . . . Provision for Service Coupons..................................................................................................................... . . . . Total Provisions................................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . Provision for warranty relates to provision made in respect of sale of certain products and components, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the
time of sale. The products are generally covered under a free warranty period ranging from to years. Provision for employee benefits includes gratuity, provident fund, post retirement benefits, compensated absence etc.
The movement in provision for warranty and service coupon is as follows :
Particulars Rupees crores
Warranty Service coupons Opening Balance................................................................................................................................................... . . . . Addition due to the scheme of Arrangement.................................................................................. — . — . Additional net provisions recognised during the year............................................................... . . . . Amounts utilised during the year............................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) Unwinding of discount...................................................................................................................................... . . . . Reclassified as held for sale......................................................................................................................... (.) — (.) — Closing Balance.................................................................................................................................................. . . . . . Income Taxes
Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net)
Particulars Rupees crores
Balance as at
-- Acquisitions Charge/(credit) Charge/(credit) Balance as at
to OCI
--
to Profit or
through
Loss
business
combinations Tax effect of items resulting in taxable temporary differences
Allowances on Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible
Assets........................................................................................................................................ ,. — (.) — ,. Others........................................................................................................................................ . — . — . Provision for employee benefits............................................................................. (.) — (.) (.) (.) Allowances for credit losses...................................................................................... (.) — . — (.) Long term capital losses.............................................................................................. (.) — (.) — (.) Others........................................................................................................................................ (.) — (.) . (.) Total Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net).......................................................... ,. — (.) (.) ,. Tax effect of items resulting in deductible temporary differences MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Income Taxes (contd.)
Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net) (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Balance as at
-- Acquisitions Charge/(credit) Charge/(credit) Balance as at
to OCI
--
to Profit or
through
Loss
business
combinations
[Refer note (B)] Tax effect of items resulting in taxable temporary differences
Allowances on Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible
Assets...................................................................................................................................... ,. . . — ,. Others...................................................................................................................................... . — . — . Provision for employee benefits........................................................................... (.) (.) . . (.) Allowances for credit losses.................................................................................... (.) (.) (.) — (.) Long term capital losses............................................................................................ (.) — . — (.) Others...................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) (.) . (.) Total Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net)........................................................ ,. . . . ,. Tax effect of items resulting in deductible temporary differences Income Tax recognised in profit or loss
Particulars Rupees crores In respect of current year................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. In respect of prior year....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) ,. ,. In respect of current year origination and reversal of temporary differences........................................................................................... (.) . Effect of utilisation/(recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses................................................................................................................... (.) . In respect of prior year....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) . (.) . ,. ,. Current Tax: Deferred Tax: Total Income Tax recognised in profit or loss............................................................................................................................................................
Income tax recognised in Other comprehensive income
Particulars Rupees crores Effective portion of gains and loss on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge............................ (.) (.) Net fair value gain on investments in debt instruments at FVTOCI.................................................................................................................. . . Remeasurement of defined benefit plans............................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Sub Total (A)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Net fair value gain on investments in equity shares at FVTOCI (.) — Sub Total (B)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) — Total Income tax recognised in Other comprehensive income Total (A) + (B)............................................................................... . (.) Deferred tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during the year: Current tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during the year: COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Income Taxes (contd.)
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at tax rate to income tax expense reported in profit or loss is as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Profit before tax...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Applicable Income tax rate.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. .% .% Expected income tax expense....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Effect of income exempt from tax / non taxable on compliance of conditions....................................................................................... (.) (.) Effect of income chargeable at specified tax rates........................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) Effect of expenses/provisions not deductible in determining taxable profit................................................................................................ . . Effect of utilisation/ (recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses................................................................................................................. (.) . Effect of net additional / (reversal) of provision in respect of prior years................................................................................................... (.) (.) Others.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Reported income tax expense................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported income tax expense: The amount and expiry period of unused capital losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the Balance Sheet
Rupees crores
Expiry Period
More than Five Years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. — . Other Non Financial Liabilities
Rupees crores
Particulars Non-Current Current Contract Liabilities................................................................................................................................................ . . . . Others............................................................................................................................................................................ — — ,. ,. Total Other Non Financial Liabilities................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. Others mainly include government dues, taxes payable, GST payable and salary deductions payable.
There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund.
. Trade Payables
Particulars Rupees crores . . – Trade payable - Other than Micro and small enterprises ..................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Acceptances............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. ,. ,. Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises.................................................................................................................
Total outstanding dues other than micro enterprises and small enterprises Total Trade Payables........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Trade Payables (contd.) Micro and Small enterprises have been identified by the Company on the basis of the information available. Total outstanding dues of Micro and
Small enterprises, which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period and other disclosures as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Development Act, (hereinafter referred to as “the MSMED Act”) are given below :
Rupees crores
Particulars – Principal......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Interest on the above.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Principal paid beyond the appointed date............................................................................................................................................................ . . – Interest paid in terms of Section of the MSMED Act........................................................................................................................... . . (c)	Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay on payments made beyond the appointed day
during the year ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . (d)	Further interest due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as
above are actually paid to the small enterprises ............................................................................................................................................ . . (e) . . (a) Dues remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year for micro and small enterprises (b)	Interest paid in terms of Section of the MSMED Act along with the amount of payment made to the
supplier beyond the appointed day during the year Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid........................................................................................................................................... Ageing of trade payables
Particulars Rupees crores
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due Less than year - years - years More than years Total MSME................................................................................................................ . . . — — . Others............................................................................................................... ,. ,. . . . ,. Disputed dues - Others........................................................................ — — — — . . ,. ,. . . . ,. As at 31st March, Trade Payables Accrued Expenses.................................................................................... ,. Total.................................................................................................................. ,. As at March, st Trade Payables
MSME................................................................................................................ . . — — — . Others............................................................................................................... ,. . . . . ,. Disputed dues - Others........................................................................ — — — — . . ,. . . . . ,. Accrued Expenses.................................................................................... ,. Total................................................................................................................... ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Revenue from Operations
Particulars
(a) Rupees crores Sale of products.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Sale of services............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. From contract with customers for goods and services Other operating revenue^.................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. – Government grant and incentives.............................................................................................................................................................................. . . – Others............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . . . Total Revenue from Operations.............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (b) From other sources of revenue
Other operating revenue Reconciliation of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with contracted price
Rupees crores
Particulars Revenue from contract with customer as per the contract price...................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Less: Trade discounts, volume rebates, returns etc. ..................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) Revenue from contract with customer as per the statement of Profit and Loss...................................................................... ,. ,. Revenue disaggregation as per nature of products and services and geography has been included in segment information (refer note ).
^ Other operating revenue mainly includes income from oil royalty and scrap sales.
. Other Income
Rupees crores
Particulars – On Financial Assets measured at Amortised Cost.......................................................................................................................................... . . – On Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income................................................................................... . . – On equity investments in subsidiaries, associates and JV’s..................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (c) Net Gain arising on financial assets/ liabilities measured at Fair Value through profit or loss.......................................... . . (d) Other non operating income (net of directly attributable expenses).................................................................................................. . . Total Other Income............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (a) (b) Interest Income Dividend Income . Cost of materials consumed
Rupees crores
Particulars
Opening inventories............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note (B)]........................................................................................................................ — . Add: Purchases.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Closing inventories.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Less: Reclassified as held for sale............................................................................................................................................................................................... . — Total Cost of materials consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
Rupees crores
Particulars Finished goods........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Manufactured Components.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. — . Finished goods........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Manufactured Components.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. Reclassified as held for sale............................................................................................................................................................................................................ . — Net (increase) in inventories...................................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (.) Opening inventories: Add: Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note (B)]
Finished goods...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Less: Closing inventories: . Employee Benefits Expense
Particulars Rupees crores (a) Salaries and wages, including bonus............................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. (b) Contribution to provident and other funds............................................................................................................................................................. . . (c) Equity settled share based payments (Refer Note ).................................................................................................................................. . . (d) Staff welfare expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total Employee Benefits Expense......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. . Finance Costs
Particulars Rupees crores Interest expense for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost................................................................................................... . . Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets................................................................................................................................. . . . . Other borrowing costs.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total Finance Costs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . (a) (b) Other borrowing cost includes discounting charges, unwinding of discount on lease and other liabilities. The weighted average capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is .% p.a.
( : .% p.a) COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense
Particulars Rupees crores (a) Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (b) Amortisation on Right-of-use asset................................................................................................................................................................................ . . (c) Amortisation on Intangible Assets................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . (d) Impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets under development.......................................................... . . Total Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense............................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Other Expenses
Particulars Rupees crores Advertisements......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Freight outward........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Stores consumed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Tools consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Power and Fuel......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Repairs and Maintenance.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Sales promotion expenses................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Legal and Professional charges [refer note (a)]................................................................................................................................................................ . . Hire and Service charges................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Miscellaneous expenses [refer note (b), (c) & (d)]........................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total Other Expenses....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (a) Auditors remuneration (Net of taxes where applicable) included in Legal and Professional charges are as below:
Particulars Rupees crores Audit Fees (including quarterly limited reviews).................................................................................................................................................... . . Other Services................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Reimbursement of expenses............................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Audit Fees.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Statutory Auditors: Cost Auditors: (b) The foreign exchange (net) gain recognised in profit or loss is Rs. . crores ( : net gain of Rs. . crores). (c)	Short term lease expenses recognised during the year is Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores).
(d) Includes contribution to political parties Rs. . crores ( : Nil). MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Corporate Social Responsibility As per section of the Companies Act, , the Company is required to spend % of its average net profit of the immediately three preceding
financial years on CSR.
Rupees crores
Particulars a)	Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year based on % of average net profits.......... . . b)	Amount spent during the year on:
i) Construction/ acquisition of assets held by the Company................................................................................................................. — — ii) On purposes other than above............................................................................................................................................................................. . . c)	Unspent amount at the end of the year.................................................................................................................................................................... — — d)	Driven by the core purpose and in line with CSR vision, your Company continued to focus on investing in girls, women, and a massive tree plantation
drive through high standard projects in the domains of education, skill development, and environment. Across all programmes, the Company has
ensured that majority of beneficiaries are girls and women. Amount recognised as expense in profit or loss is Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). Further, the Company does not wish to carry forward any
excess amount spent during the year.
. Exceptional Items (net) 
The Company classifies items of income and expense within profit or loss from ordinary activities as exceptional items when they are of such size, nature
or incidence that their disclosure is relevant to explain the performance for the period.
Exceptional Items (net) recognised in profit or loss
Rupees crores
Particulars Profit on transfer / sale of certain long term investments..................................................................................................................................... . . Sale of certain freehold land.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Impairment loss on certain long term investments....................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (.) Impairment of Property Plant and Equipment, Intangibles and certain other assets........................................................................... (.) — Reversal of impairment loss on an investment................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (,.) (.) Impairment loss on certain investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures has been recognised considering the performance of these companies and their
future projections. The Company has capital assets and long-term investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are measured at cost less impairment
or at fair value through profit or loss. The management assesses the performance of these entities as well as capital assets including the future
projections, relevant economic and market conditions in which they operate to identify if there is any indicator of impairment in the carrying value
of the investments and capital assets. In case indicators of impairment exist, the impairment loss is measured by estimating the recoverable amounts
based on the higher of (i) ‘fair value less cost of disposal’ determined using market price information, where available, and (ii) ‘value-in-use’ estimates
determined using discounted cash flow projections, where available. The fair value less costs of disposal is determined using the market approach. The
future cash flow projections are specific to the entity based on its business plan and may not be the same as those of market participants. The future
cash flows consider key assumptions such as volume projections, margins, terminal growth rates, etc. with due consideration for the potential risks given
the current economic environment in which the entity operates. The discount rates used with required tax rates based on weighted average cost of
capital and reflects market’s assessment of the risks specific to the asset as well as time value of money. The recoverable amount estimates are based
on judgments, estimates, assumptions and market data as on reporting date and ignore subsequent changes in the economic and market conditions. During the year ended 31st March, , the performance of certain capital assets, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures along with capital allocation
decisions, coupled with the relevant economic and market indicators including external investors price discovery, and inflationary trends resulted in indicators
of impairment in respect of certain entities and Assets. Accordingly, the Company determined the recoverable amounts of the long term assets and
other exposures related to these entities, other assets and recorded a provision of Rs. ,. crores ( : Rs. . crores) for the year ended
31st March, . The value-in-use calculation use discount rates ranging from .% - .% and the terminal growth rates ranging from .% -.%. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Earning Per Share (EPS)
Particulars Profit for the year (Rupees crores).................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing basic EPS................................................................ ,,,, ,,,, Effect of potential Dilutive Ordinary (Equity) Shares............................................................................................................................................ ,, ,, Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing diluted EPS............................................................ ,,,, ,,,, Basic Earnings per share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs. per share)..................................................................................................................... . . Diluted Earnings per share (Rs.)........................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . Employee Benefits
General description of defined benefit plans:
Gratuity The Company operates a gratuity plan covering qualifying employees. The benefit payable is the greater of the amount calculated as per the Payment
of Gratuity Act or the Company scheme applicable to the employee. The benefit vests upon completion of five years of continuous service and once
vested it is payable to employees on retirement or on termination of employment. In case of death while in service, the gratuity is payable irrespective
of vesting. The Company makes annual contribution to the group gratuity scheme administered by the Life Insurance Corporation of India through its
Gratuity Trust Fund.
Post - retirement medical The Company provides post retirement medical cover to select grade of employees to cover the retiring employee and their spouse upto a specified
age through mediclaim policy on which the premiums are paid by the Company. The eligibility of the employee for the benefit as well as the amount of
medical cover purchased is determined by the grade of the employee at the time of retirement.
Post - retirement housing allowance The Company operates a post retirement benefit scheme for a certain grade of employees in which a monthly allowance determined on the basis of the
last drawn basic salary at the time of retirement, is paid to the retiring employee in lieu of housing.
Though its defined benefit plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset Volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to government bond yields; if plan assets under perform compared to this
yield, this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans may hold equity type assets, which may carry volatility and associated risk.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in government bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’
investment in debt instruments.
Inflation risk The present value of some of the defined benefit plan obligations are calculated with reference to the future salaries of plan participants. As such,
an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. The post retirement medical benefit obligation is sensitive to medical
inflation and accordingly, an increase in medical inflation rate would increase the plan’s liability.
Life expectancy The present value of defined benefit plan obligation is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants, both during and
after the employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Employee Benefits (contd.)
A. Details of defined benefit plans as per actuarial valuation are as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Funded Plan Unfunded Plans
Post retirement
medical Gratuity i ii Post retirement
housing allowance Amounts recognised in profit or loss
Current service cost................................................................................. . . . . . . Past service cost........................................................................................ — (.) — — — . Net interest expense/(income)......................................................... (.) (.) . . . . Total amount included in employee benefits expense . . . . . . – financial assumptions.................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) – demographic assumptions....................................................... — (.) — (.) — — – experience adjustments............................................................ . . . . (.) . b)	Return on plan assets, excluding amount included
in net interest expense/ (income).......................................... (.) (.) — — — — Total amount recognised in other comprehensive
income................................................................................................................ (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Opening defined benefit obligation............................................... . . . . . . Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note (B)] / Inter company transfers..................... . . — — — — Amounts recognised in other comprehensive
income
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
a) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in - iii Changes in the defined benefit obligation Current service cost................................................................................. . . . . . . Past service cost........................................................................................ — — — — — . Interest expense......................................................................................... . . . . . . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) - demographic assumptions.............................................................. — (.) — (.) — — - experience adjustments................................................................... . . . . (.) . Benefits paid.................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Closing defined benefit obligation.................................................. . . . . . . Opening fair value of plan assets.................................................. . . — — — — Add/(less) Assets acquired on account of business
combination [Refer note (B)]..................................................... — . — — — — Interest income............................................................................................ . . — — — — Remeasurements (gains)/ losses arising from changes in - financial assumptions......................................................................... iv Changes in fair value of plan assets during the year Return on plan assets excluding interest income.............. . . — — — — Contribution by employer..................................................................... . . . . . . Benefits paid.................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Closing fair value of plan assets . . — — — — COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Employee Benefits (contd.)
A. Details of defined benefit plans as per actuarial valuation are as below: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Funded Plan Unfunded Plans
Post retirement
medical Gratuity v Post retirement
housing allowance Defined benefit obligation.................................................................... . . . . . . Fair value of plan assets....................................................................... . . — — — — Surplus/(Deficit)........................................................................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Current portion of the above............................................................ — — (.) (.) (.) (.) Non current portion of the above................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Net defined benefit obligation Rupees crores Discount rate......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Attrition rate.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Cost inflation......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - % - % One percentage point increase in discount rate.......................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point decrease in discount rate........................................................................................................................................ . . One percentage point increase in Salary growth rate............................................................................................................................ . . One percentage point decrease in Salary growth rate.......................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point increase in attrition rate.......................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point decrease in attrition rate......................................................................................................................................... . . One percentage point increase in medical inflation rate....................................................................................................................... . . One percentage point decrease in medical inflation rate..................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Upto year............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . to years........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . to years........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . years and above.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Particulars
Actuarial Assumptions and Sensitivity
vi Actuarial assumptions vii Quantitative sensitivity analysis for impact of significant assumptions on defined benefit
obligation are as below: viii Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation 	The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant
factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Employee Benefits (contd.)
B. Trust-managed Provident fund: Rupees crores Particulars
i ii Defined benefit obligation.......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Fair value of plan assets............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Surplus/(Deficit)................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) — Discount rate....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio (years)................................................................................................................ . . Guaranteed rate of returns....................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Net defined benefit obligation Actuarial assumptions The Company has recognised an obligation of Rs. . crores (: Nil) on account of interest rate guarantee through OCI. The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds. The Company’s contribution to Provident Fund and Superannuation fund aggregating Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores) has been
recognised in Profit or Loss under the head Employee Benefits Expense.
. Employee Stock Option Plan The Company has allotted ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each, ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each, ,,, Ordinary
(Equity) Shares of Rs. each, ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each and ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each in the years ended
31st March, , 31st March, , 31st March, , 31st March, and 31st March, respectively to the Mahindra & Mahindra Employees’ Stock
Option Trust (“M&M ESOP Trust”) set up by the Company. The Trust holds these shares for the benefit of the employees and issues them to the eligible
employees as per the recommendations of the Compensation Committee. Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - (“ Scheme”) vest in equal instalments on the expiry
of months, months, months and months from the date of grant. The options may be exercised on any day over a period of five years from
the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a minimum of or number of options vested whichever is lower.
Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - (“ Scheme”) vest in
i) equal instalments on the expiry of months, months, months, months and months or ii) equal instalments on the expiry of months, months, months, months and months or iii)	 instalments bifurcated as % on the expiry of months, % on the expiry of months, % on the expiry of months and % on the
expiry of months or
iv) equal instalments on the expiry of months, months, months and months or v) instalments bifurcated as .% on the expiry of months, .% on the expiry of months and .% on the expiry of months. or vi) instalments bifurcated as % on the expiry of months and % on the expiry of months or vii) instalments bifurcated as % on the expiry of months and % on the expiry of months The exercise period of above options range from year to years from the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a
minimum of or number of options vested whichever is lower.
Summary of stock options
Particulars No. of stock
options Weighted average
exercise price (Rs.) Options outstanding on 1st April, ................................................................................................................................................ ,, . Options granted during the year.............................................................................................................................................................. ,, . Options forfeited/lapsed during the year........................................................................................................................................... ,, . Options exercised during the year.......................................................................................................................................................... ,, . Options outstanding on Mar ............................................................................................................................................... ,, . Options vested but not exercised on 31st Mar ................................................................................................................ ,, . st COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Employee Stock Option Plan (contd.)
Average share price on the date of exercise of the options are as under
Date of exercise Weighted average
share price (Rs.) 01st April, to 21st March, ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. Information in respect of options outstanding as at 31st March, Range of exercise price Number of
options Weighted average
remaining life Rs. ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,, . years Rs. ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,, . years No. of Years
vesting Fair value per
option 27th May, ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... years Rs. . 04th August, ................................................................................................................................................................................................ years Rs. ,. 10th November, ........................................................................................................................................................................................ years Rs. ,. 10th February, ........................................................................................................................................................................................... years Rs. ,. * 23rd February, ........................................................................................................................................................................................ - years Rs. ,. The fair values of options granted during the year are as follows:
Grant Date The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Options Pricing Model and the significant assumptions made in this regard are as follows :
Grant date & Vesting period
Particulars 27th May, 4th August, 10th Nov, 10th February, *23rd February, ( years vesting) ( years vesting) ( years vesting)
( years vesting) (- years vesting) Risk free interest rate.................................................. .% .% .% .% .% - .% Expected life....................................................................... years years years years . - . years Expected volatility.......................................................... .% .% .% .% .% - .% Expected dividend yield................................................ .% .% .% .% .% Exercise Price (Rs.) ...................................................... Stock Price (Rs.) ............................................................ . ,. ,. ,. ,. In respect of Options granted under the Employee Stock Option Plan the accounting is done as per requirements of Ind AS . Consequently,
salaries, wages, bonus etc. includes Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores) being expenses on account of share based payments, after adjusting
for reversals on account of options forfeited. The amount excludes Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores) charged to its subsidiaries for options
issued to their employees.
* pursuant to the scheme of merger of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (MEML), the Company has issued , employee stock options in
replacement of MEML stock options. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Capital Management The Company’s capital management strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. The same is
done through a mix of either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term/long term debt as may be appropriate. The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of its product, capital expenditure, operations and strategic investment plans. The
same is funded through a combination of capital sources be it either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term/long
term debt as may be appropriate.
The capital structure is monitored on the basis of net debt to equity and maturity profile of overall debt portfolio of the Company.
Net Debt and Equity is given in the table below :
Rupees crores
Particulars
Total Shareholders’ Equity as reported in Balance Sheet........................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. . Net Debt
Short term debt......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Long term debt........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Gross Debt ,. ,. Current investments............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Cash and Bank Balances................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Less: Net Debt..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) Total Capital deployed................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. . Financial instruments
Financial Risk Management Framework In the course of its business, the Company is exposed to certain financial risks namely credit risk, interest risk, currency risk & liquidity risk. The Company’s
primary focus is to achieve better predictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects on its financial performance.
The financial risks are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policy which has been approved by its Board of Directors.
. Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates etc. could affect the Company’s income or the
value of its holdings of financial instruments including cash flow. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk
exposures within acceptable parameters, while maximising the return. (a) Currency Risk The Company’s exposure to currency risk relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities including anticipated sales, purchases and
borrowings where the transactions are denominated in a currency other than the Company’s functional currency. The Company’s foreign currency exposures are managed in accordance with its Foreign Exchange Risk Management Policy which has been
approved by its Board of Directors. The Company hedges its foreign currency risk mainly by way of Forward Covers. Other derivative instruments
may be used if deemed appropriate. The carrying amounts of the Company’s foreign currency exposure at the end of the reporting period are as follows :
Rupees crores
Particulars US Dollar Euro KRW Others Total Financial assets............................................................................. . ,. — . ,. Financial liabilities....................................................................... . . . . . Financial assets............................................................................. ,. ,. . . ,. Financial liabilities....................................................................... . . . . . As at March, st As at 31st March, COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial instruments (contd.)
. Market Risk Management (contd.) Hedge Accounting - Forwards Contracts that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are accounted as per the hedge accounting requirements of Ind AS - Financial
Instruments, while other contracts are accounted as derivatives measured through profit or loss (FVTPL). Details of Forward Foreign Currency Contracts outstanding at the end of reporting period
Outstanding Contracts Rupees crores Notional
value Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Notional
value Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Cash Flow Hedges
Sell currency
— EUR............................................................................................................ ,. (.) ,. . — USD............................................................................................................ . (.) . . — ZAR............................................................................................................ . (.) . (.) — AUD............................................................................................................ . . — — — BRL............................................................................................................. — — . (.) Total...................................................................................................................... (.) . There are no significant transactions of hedges which are ineffective.
The Company also has outstanding forward exchange contracts that are not accounted as hedges.
Notional value of the same is as given below:Particulars Rupees crores — . Sell currency
Maturing less than year
— USD........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Buy currency
— JPY/INR.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . — — EUR/INR................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . — — . Cross Currency hedge
— USD/JPY................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (b) Interest Rate Risk The Company uses a mix of cash and borrowings to manage the liquidity & fund requirements of its day-to-day operations. Further, certain
interest bearing liabilities carry variable interest rates. Interest Rate risk on variable rate borrowings is managed by way of interest rate swaps. There are no significant transactions of hedges which are ineffective. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial instruments (contd.)
. Market Risk Management (contd.) (c) The movements in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve for instruments designated in a cash flow hedge are as follows:
Particulars Rupees crores Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges Interest
Rate Risk
hedges Total Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges Interest
Rate Risk
hedges Total Gross (.) — (.) (.) (.) (.) Deferred tax . — . . . . Balance as at the beginning of the
year (net)................................................................................ (.) — (.) (.) (.) (.) (Gains)/Losses transferred to Profit or Loss
on occurrence of the forecast transaction.... . — . (.) . (.) Change in Fair Value of Effective Portion of
cash flow hedges............................................................... . — . . — . Total........................................................................................... . — . . . . Deferred tax effect on above................................... (.) — (.) (.) (.) (.) Gross . — . (.) — (.) Deferred tax (.) — (.) . — . . — . (.) — (.) Balance relating to continuing hedges......................... . — . (.) — (.) Total........................................................................................... . — . (.) — (.) Balance as at the beginning of
the year.................................................................................... Balance as at the end of the year.................................... Balance as at the end of the year (net).......................
Of the above: (d) Sensitivity Analysis (i) Foreign Currency Sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
Rupees crores
Particulars Year ended 31st March, ........................................................................ Year ended 31st March, ............................................................................. Currency Change in rate Effect on
profit before
tax Effect on
pre-tax
equity USD % . (.) EUR % . — USD % . (.) EUR % . — The sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because the exposure at the end of the reporting period
does not reflect the exposure during the year. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial instruments (contd.)
. Market Risk Management (contd.) (ii) Interest Rate sensitivity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on exposure to interest rate for both derivative and non-derivative
instruments at the end of reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding
at the end of the reporting period, was outstanding for the whole year. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings
affected, after the impact of hedge accounting. With all other variables held constant, the Company’s profit before tax is affected through
the impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Year ended 31st March, ........................................................................
Year ended 31st March, .............................................................................
. Currency Increase/
decrease in
basis points Effect on
profit before
tax Effect on
pre-tax
equity EUR
INR
EUR
INR +
+
+
+ —
.
—
. —
—
—
— Credit Risk Management Credit Risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company. The Company
has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating
the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Company’s exposure are continuously monitored. (a) Financial Guarantees 
In addition, the Company is exposed to credit risk in relation to financial guarantees given to banks. The Company’s maximum exposure in
this respect is the maximum amount, the Company would have to pay, if the guarantee is called on. Financial guarantees are accounted as
explained in note (k). The amount recognised in Balance Sheet as liabilities and maximum exposure details are as given below:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Maximum exposure....................................................................................................................................................................................................
Amount recognised as liability ........................................................................................................................................................................ (b) .
. .
. Trade Receivables The Company applies the simplified approach to provide for expected credit losses prescribed by Ind AS , which permits the use of the
lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables. The Company has computed expected credit losses based on a provision matrix
which uses historical credit loss experience of the Company. Forward-looking information (including macroeconomic information) has been
incorporated into the determination of expected credit losses. The Company has taken dealer deposits, bank guarantees etc. which are
considered as collateral and these are considered in determination of expected credit losses, where applicable. Amounts pertaining to these collaterals are as given below:Rupees crores
Particulars
Dealer Deposits.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Bank Guarantees..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Others (including Letter of Credit).................................................................................................................................................................. .
.
. .
.
. Reconciliation of loss allowance for Trade Receivables:
Particulars
Balance as at beginning of the year.........................................................................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note (B)]..............................................................................................
Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................
Amounts written off during the year.............................................................................................................................................................
Amount of loss reversed/written back..........................................................................................................................................................
Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................ Rupees crores (.)
—
(.)
.
.
(.) (.)
(.)
(.)
.
.
(.) The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of Financial Guarantee contracts are disclosed in Note - (a). In respect of other financial assets, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each
class of financial assets. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial instruments (contd.)
. Liquidity Risk Management
(a) Maturity profile of non-derivative financial liabilities The following tables detail the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment
periods. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the
Company can be required to pay. The tables include both interest and principal cash flows.
Rupees crores
Particulars Less than Year - Years Years to Years Years and
above Short term borrowings - Principal............................................................................. ,. — — — Short term borrowings - Interest............................................................................... . — — — Long term borrowings - Principal............................................................................... — ,. . . Long term borrowings - Interest................................................................................. . . . ,. Lease liabilities......................................................................................................................... . . . . Trade payables.......................................................................................................................... ,. — — — As at 31st March, Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................. ,. . . . Financial Guarantees............................................................................................................ . — — — Total................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. . ,. Short term borrowings - Principal............................................................................. . — — — Short term borrowings - Interest............................................................................... . — — — Long term borrowings - Principal............................................................................... — ,. ,. . Long term borrowings - Interest................................................................................. . . . ,. Lease liabilities......................................................................................................................... . . . . Trade payables.......................................................................................................................... ,. — — — Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................. ,. . . . Financial Guarantees............................................................................................................ . — — — Total................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. As at March, st The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Company could be forced to settle under
the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations
at the end of the reporting period, the Company considers that it is more likely than not that such an amount will not be payable under
the arrangement. (b) Maturity profile of derivative financial liabilities The following table details the Company’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial liabilities other than derivatives on Interest in Subsidiaries,
Associates and Joint Ventures. When the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected
interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves at the end of the reporting period.
Rupees crores
Particulars Less than Year - Years Years to Years As at 31st March, .............................................................................................................................................. . — — As at March, .................................................................................................................................................. . — — st . Offsetting of balances: The Company has not offset financial assets and financial liabilities. . Collaterals The Company has availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, some of which are
secured by hypothecation of book debts, receivables, outstanding monies and all other current assets. Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL Financial
instruments
designated at
FVTOCI Financial
instruments
designated at
FVTOCI Financial
instruments
measured at FVTOCI Financial
instruments
measured at FVTOCI Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL Financial
instruments
measured at FVTOCI Financial
Liabilities Financial
Assets Financial
Liabilities Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets )	Foreign currency forwards,
Options, Interest rate swaps &
Commodity derivatives )	Derivatives on Interest in
Subsidiaries, Associates and
Joint Ventures )	Derivatives on Interest in
Subsidiaries, Associates and
Joint Ventures )	Investment in Market Linked
Debentures )	Investment in Mutual Funds
and Alternate Investment
Fund )	Investment in equity
instruments -Quoted )	Equity investments-Unquoted )	Investment in Government
Securities )	Investments in Debentures/
Bonds )	Equity investments-Quoted )	Commercial Papers and
Certificate of Deposits )	Investments in Optionally
Convertible Cumulative
Redeemable Preference
Shares/Optionally Convertible
Debentures/Bonds
. ,. Level . . Level Level — Level . Level Level Level Level Discounted Cash Flow
method Market price Quoted market price Quoted market price Quoted market price Discounted Cash Flow Income
Approach Quoted bid price in active
market Net Asset value For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions. — — — Not applicable as Level hierarchy For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions. — — — For Comparable Companies Method/Comparable Companies
Quoted multiples - compares the price for which comparable
companies are traded on the capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions. For Comparable Companies Method/Comparable Companies
Quoted multiples - compares the price for which comparable
companies are traded on the capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward exchange
rates (from observable forward exchange rates at the end of
the reporting period) and contract forward rates, discounted at
a rate that reflects the credit risk of various counter parties. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward exchange
rates (from observable forward exchange rates at the end of
the reporting period) and contract forward rates, discounted at a
rate that reflects the credit risk of various counter parties. Financial projections
and discount rates to
discount future cash
flows. — — — — Financial projections
and discount rates to
discount future cash
flows. — — — Interest Rates to
discount future
cash flow, Financial
Projections Interest Rates to
discount future cash
flow, market multiple
used for comparable
companies. — — Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections etc.
would entail corresponding change in
the valuation of the equity component
and/or the debt component. — — — — Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections
etc. would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of the
equity component and/or the debt
component. — — — Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections
etc. would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of derivatives
on interest in subsidiaries and
associates and joint ventures. Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections
etc. would entail corresponding change
in the valuation of derivatives on
interest in subsidiaries and associates
and joint ventures. — — Relationship of unobservable inputs
to fair value and sensitivity STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS . . . . . ,. Quoted market price Comparable Companies
Method/Discounted Cash
Flow/Price of Recent
Transaction/Comparable
Companies Quoted multiples Comparable Companies
Method/Discounted Cash
Flow/Price of Recent
Transaction/Comparable
Companies Quoted multiples Discounted Cash Flow and
Interest Rate Discounted Cash Flow Significant
unobservable input(s)
for level hierarchy BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT . . . Level Level Level — Level . . . Level Key inputs (for level and level ) CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE ,. . . . . . Valuation technique(s) Rupees crores MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL . Fair value
hierarchy For Level hierarchy
valuation BOARD’S
REPORT Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL/
FVTOCI Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL/
FVTOCI Financial
Assets )	Foreign currency forwards,
Options, Interest rate swaps &
Commodity derivatives Category Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities Applicable for Level and Level hierarchy COMPANY
OVERVIEW Particulars
Fair Value Fair Value Disclosures
(a) Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items . . Financial instruments (contd.) CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial instruments (contd.)
. Fair Value Disclosures (contd.) (a) Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items (contd.) Reconciliation of Level fair value measurements of financial instruments measured at fair value
Rupees crores
Particulars Unquoted Equity
investment Investments
Derivatives
in Optionally
on Interest in
Convertible
Subsidiaries,
Preference
Associates and
Joint Ventures Shares/Optionally
Convertible
(Net)
Debentures Total Year Ended 31st March, . . . . (a)	unrealised gains or losses during the Year
related to assets & liabilities existing on balance
sheet date ...................................................................................... — (.) (.) (.) (b)	gain or loss realised during the year for assets
& liabilities disposed, settled etc..................................... — . — . — — . . . — — . —	disposals/contracts realised during the
year......................................................................................... (.) — — (.) Closing balance of fair value................................................................. . (.) . . . (.) . . (a)	unrealised gains or losses during the year
related to assets & liabilities existing on balance
sheet date ....................................................................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (b)	gain or loss realised during the year for assets
& liabilities disposed, settled, etc.................................... — . — . Opening balance of fair value..............................................................
Total incomes/gains or losses recognised:
— in profit or loss — —	purchases/contracts entered during the
year......................................................................................... in other comprehensive income
Fair value of—	gain or loss realised during the year for assets
& liabilities disposed, settled etc..................................... Year Ended March, st Opening balance of fair value..............................................................
Total incomes/gains or losses recognised:
— — in profit or loss in other comprehensive income Fair value of—	unrealised gains or losses during the year related to
assets & liabilities existing on balance sheet date........ (.) — — (.) Closing balance of fair value................................................................. . . . . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial instruments (contd.)
. Fair Value Disclosures (contd.) (b) Financial Instruments not measured using Fair Value i.e. measured using amortized cost
Rupees crores
Particulars Carrying
Value Fair value
(Level ) As at 31st March, Non Current Borrowings
— Debentures....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. — Term Loans....................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . — Other loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . As at 31st March, Non Current Borrowings
— Debentures....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. — Term Loans....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. — Other loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Except for the above, carrying value of Other financial assets/liabilities represent reasonable estimate of fair value. There were no transfers between Level and Level during the year. . Related Party Disclosures:
(a) Related parties where control exists: Subsidiaries:
Sr. No. Name of the entity Sr. No. Name of the entity Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited Ryono Asset Management Co., Limited NBS International Limited Mahindra Mexico S. De. R. L. (Under Liquidation) Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited Mahindra Do Brasil Industrial Ltda. Mahindra Europe S.R.L. Erkunt Traktor Sanayii Anonim Şirketi Mahindra And Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary) Limited Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi Mahindra West Africa Limited (upto 4th January, ) Sampo Rosenlew Oy (w.e.f. 22nd July, ) Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited Swaraj Engines Limited (w.e.f. 28th September, ) Automobili Pininfarina GmbH M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (w.e.f 17th March, ) Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc. Kota Farm Services Limited Mahindra Automotive North America Inc. Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Mahindra Vehicle Sales And Service Inc. Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited Mahindra North American Technical Center, Inc. Mahindra HZPC Private Limited Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited (upto 13th March, ) Mahindra Fruits Private Limited Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (w.e.f. 25th October, ) Gromax Agri Equipment Limited Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution Holding Company (Europe) B.V.
(upto 27th February, ) Trringo.Com Limited OFD Holding B.V. (upto 20th April, ) Mahindra USA Inc. Origin Direct Asia Ltd. (upto 20th April, ) Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co., Limited Origin Fruit Direct B.V. (upto 20th April, ) Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Limited Origin Fruit Services South America Spa (upto 20th April, ) Ryono Factory Co., Limited Origin Direct Asia (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd.
(upto 20th April, ) Ryono Engineering Co., Limited Merakisan Private Limited (upto 7th September, ) Dia Computer Service Co., Limited Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(a) Related parties where control exists: (contd.) Subsidiaries: (contd.)
Sr. No. Name of the entity Fifth Gear Ventures Limited Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited ESOP Trust Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Mahindra Finance CSR Foundation MRHFL Employee Welfare Trust (ESOP) Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited ESOP Trust Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited Mahindra Infrastructure Developers Limited Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited Knowledge Township Limited Sr. No. Name of the entity Kiinteistö Oy Mällösniemi
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt (formerly known as Supermarket Capri Oy) Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt (merged with Supermarket Capri Oy w.e.f. 8th April, ) Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta (merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta (merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts (merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts (merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Mahindra Integrated Township Limited (merged with Mahindra
World City Developers Limited w.e.f 31st December, ) Kiinteistö Oy Tenetinlahti
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Mahindra Residential Developers Limited (merged with Mahindra
World City Developers Limited w.e.f 31st December, ) Kiinteistö Oy Tiurunniemi
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Industrial Township (Maharashtra) Limited Kiinteistö Oy Vanha Ykköstii
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) Anthurium Developers Limited Ownership Services Sweden Ab Mahindra Water Utilities Limited Are Villa Ab Rathna Bhoomi Enterprises Private Limited Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre Deep Mangal Developers Private Limited Holiday Club Sport And Spahotels Ab Moonshine Construction Private Limited Holiday Club Resorts Rus LLC Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L.U. Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing S.L.U. Mahindra Hotels and Residences India Limited Holiday Club Canarias Resort Management S.L.U. Gables Promoters Private Limited Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club S.L.U. Heritage Bird (M) Sdn. Bhd. Arabian Dreams Hotel Apartments LLC Infinity Hospitality Group Company Limited Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited ESOP Trust MH Boutique Hospitality Limited MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited Mahindra Holidays & Resorts Harihareshwar Limited
(w.e.f. 23rd August, ) Covington S.a.r.l. Guestline Hospitality Management And Development Services
Limited (w.e.f 2nd December, ) HCR Management Oy
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 28th February, ) Mahindra Logistics Limited Holiday Club Resorts Oy Lords Freight (India) Private Limited Kiinteistö Oy Himos Gardens
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) X Logistics Private Limited Kiinteistö Oy Katinnurkka
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) MLL Express Services Private Limited (formerly known as Meru
Travel Solutions Private Limited) MLL Mobility Private Limited (formerly known as Meru Mobility
Tech Private Limited) Kiinteistö Oy Kuusamon Pulkkajärvi (merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited Kiinteistö Oy Kylpyläntorni (merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, ) V-Link Automotive Services Private Limited V-Link Freight Services Private Limited (w.e.f 9th September, ) COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(a) Related parties where control exists: (contd.) Subsidiaries: (contd.)
Sr. No. Name of the entity Sr. No. Name of the entity MLL Global Logistics Limited (w.e.f December, ) PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.A.R.L. th Mahindra Defence Systems Limited st Peugeot Motocycles Deutschland Gmbh (upto January, ) Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring FZ-LLC Peugeot Motocycles Italia S.P.A. (Under Liquidation)
(upto 31st January, ) Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordan, LLC. Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (upto 31st January, ) Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited
(w.e.f. 17th June, ) PMTC Engineering SPA (upto 31st January, ) Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc.(upto 20th October, ) Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone Limited Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone Consulting Limited Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Gipps Aero Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone International Ag Airvan Flight Services Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone UK Limited GA8 Airvan Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone Inc. GA200 Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone Middle East Dmcc Nomad Tc Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone India Limited Airvan Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) Bristlecone GmbH Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited (upto 16th March, ) Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited ESOP Trust
(upto 16th March, ) Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica Limited Mahindra Namaste Limited (upto 16th March, ) Mahindra Susten Private Limited (upto December, ) Mahindra Airways Limited Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (upto 22nd December, ) Neo Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, ) Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited Astra Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, ) Mahindra Holdings Limited Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (upto 22nd December, ) Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited MSPL International DMCC (upto 22nd December, ) Mahindra Racing UK Limited Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private Limited Mahindra Emarket Limited Martial Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, ) Mahindra Construction Company Limited Mahindra Teqo Private Limited Officemartindia.com Limited Mahindra Solarize Private Limited Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited (w.e.f. August, ) Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited Emergent Solren Private Limited (w.e.f November, ) Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Private Limited Mahindra Accelo Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Intertrade Limited) New Democratic Electoral Trust Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited Sunrise Initiatives Trust Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited Mumbai Mantra Media Limited Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited Mahindra Marine Private Limited Mahindra Middleeast Electrical Steel Service Centre (FZC) M&M Benefit Trust Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust nd th th MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(b) Other parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year: (i) Associates :
Sr. No. Name of the entity Aurangabad Electricals, Limited Born Commerce Private Limited Brainbees Solutions Private Limited Comviva Technologies Limited Golde Bengaluru India Private Limited Golde Pune Automotive India, Private Limited Golde Wuhan Co., Ltd Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited Mahindra Educational Institutions Mahindra Finance USA LLC (ii) Joint Ventures : Sr. No. Name of the entity
Medwell Ventures Private Limited
Participaciones Internacionales Autometal Dos S.L.
PF Holdings B.V.
PSL Media & Communications Limited
ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited
Satyam Venture Engineering Services Private Limited
Swaraj Engines Limited (upto 27th September, )
Tech Mahindra Business Services Limited
Tech Mahindra Limited Sr. No. Sr. No. Name of the entity
Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, )
Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited
Mahindra Susten Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, )
Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited
(upto 16th June, )
Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited
Mahindra World City Developers Limited
Mahindra-Bt Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited
Martial Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, )
Marvel Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, )
Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, )
Sampo Rosenlew Oy (upto 21st July, )
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited Name of the entity
Carnot Technologies Private Limited
Classic Legends Private Limited
Gippsaero Pty Ltd (upto 28th March, )
M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited
(upto 16th March, )
Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (upto 28th March, )
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (upto 28th March, )
Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited (upto 28th March, )
Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited
Mahindra Homes Private Limited
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited
Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited
Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited
(iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP) : Sr. No. Name of KMP
Designation
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Chairman
Dr. Anish Shah
Managing Director and CEO
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sectors)
Mrs. Nisaba Godrej
Independent Director
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
Independent Director
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
Independent Director
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Independent Director
Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Independent Director
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
Nominee Director
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Independent Director
Mrs. Shikha Sharma
Independent Director
Mr. C. P. Gurnani
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
(iv) Close member of KMP and entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP : Sr. No. Sr. No. Close member of KMP
Mrs. Anuradha Mahindra
Mrs. Radhika Nath
Dr. T. N. Gajendran
Entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP
The Indian & Eastern Engineer Company Private Limited
Harulika Ventures LLP (v) Sr. No. Entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP Araku Originals Private Limited Entity belonging to Promoter/Promoter Group holding % or more in the Company : Sr. No. Name of the entity Prudential Management & Services Private Limited (vi) Welfare Funds / Post-Employment benefit plans :
Sr. No. Name of the Fund
M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. M&M Employees’ Welfare Fund No. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Gratuity scheme Sr. No. Name of the Fund
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff Provident Fund
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited Staff & Workmen's Superannuation Scheme
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited Superannuation Scheme
Mahindra World School Education Trust COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c) The related party transactions are as under:
Rupees crores Sr.
No. Nature of Transactions . Purchases:
Goods............................................................. Services........................................................ Property, Plant and Equipment... Intangible Assets.................................... . Property, Plant and Equipment... Intangible Assets.................................... Services........................................................ Entity
Close
members belonging to
Promoter/
of KMP and
Promoter
Entities
Group
controlled/
jointly holding %
or more in
controlled by
KMP the Company Welfare
Funds /
PostEmployment
benefit
plans ,. ,. . — — — — ,. ,. . — — — — ,. . . — — — — ,. . . — — — — . . . — — — — . . . — — — — . . — — — — — . . — — — — — ,. . . — — — — ,. . . — — — — . — — — — — — . . — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . . . — — — — . . . — . — — ,. — . . — — — . . . — — — — . . — — — — — — — — — — — — . — . — — — — . — — — — — — . . . — — — — . . . — — — — Investments:
Purchased/Subscribed/
Conversion/Bonus.................................. Sold/Redeemed/Tendered under
merger scheme....................................... . KMP Sales:
Goods............................................................. . For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March Deputation of Personnel:
From Parties............................................. To Parties.................................................... MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores Sr.
No. Nature of Transactions . Managerial Remuneration............... . . . . Stock Options.......................................... Commission and other benefits
to Non-executive/independent
directors (including nominee
directors) **........................................................ Others (Sitting Fees) #............................ KMP Entity
Close
members belonging to
Promoter/
of KMP and
Promoter
Entities
Group
controlled/
jointly holding %
or more in
controlled by
KMP the Company Welfare
Funds /
PostEmployment
benefit
plans — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — ,. — . — — — — . — . — — — — . — . . — — . . — . . — — . — — — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — . . — — — . — . . — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — — . ,. — — — — — . ,. — — — — — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — . — — . . . . . — — . . . . Finance:
Loans/Inter Corporate Deposits
given/rollover............................................. Loans/Inter Corporate Deposits
refunded by parties............................. Inter Corporate Deposit Taken.... Inter Corporate Deposit Taken
refunded to parties.............................. Interest Income....................................... Interest Expenses.................................. Dividend received.................................. Share Application Money Given...... . For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March Dividends Distributed.......................... COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores Sr.
No. Nature of Transactions . Guarantees Given.................................. . Other Expenses...................................... Reimbursements received from
parties........................................................... Reimbursements made to
parties........................................................... Entity
Close
members belonging to
Promoter/
of KMP and
Promoter
Entities
Group
controlled/
jointly holding %
or more in
controlled by
KMP the Company Welfare
Funds /
PostEmployment
benefit
plans . — — — — — — . — . — — — — . . . — . — — . . . — * — — . . . — . — . . . . — . — . . . . — . — . . . . — . — . . . . — — — — . . . — — — — ,. . . * . — — . . . . . — — ,. . . — . — . . . . — . — . ,. — . . — — . ,. — . . — — . . . — — — — — . . . — — — — Outstandings:
Trade and Other Payable................. Trade and Other Receivable........... Loans/Inter Corporate Deposits
outstanding................................................ . KMP Other Transactions:
Other Income........................................... . For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March Guarantees given................................... * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,.
** includes sitting fees and commission paid/payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a partner.
Transactions with related parties are at arm’s length.
# In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
Details of related party transactions with Key Management Personnel are as under:
Sr.
No. Nature of Transaction Name of KMP . Salary including perquisites..................................................................................... Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Dr. Pawan Goenka Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar . Stock Options.................................................................................................................... Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar . Commission & Sitting fees........................................................................................ Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Dr. Pawan Goenka . Other Contribution to Funds................................................................................... Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar For the Year Ended
31st March Rupees crores . . — . . . . . . . . . . . — . — . . . . . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Disclosure required under Section () of the Companies Act, for Loans and Guarantees (net of provision):
Rupees crores
Sr. Name
No.
. Relationship as per
Companies Act, Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited Subsidiary of the Company ,. ,. SsangYong Motor Company Subsidiary of the Company — . Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Subsidiary of the Company . . Mahindra Susten Private Limited Subsidiary of the Company . . Classic Legends Private Limited Subsidiary of the Company . . Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited Subsidiary of the Company — . — . ,. ,. Inter Corporate deposits and Loans Kotak Mahindra Investment Limited Sr. Name
No. . Relationship as per
Companies Act, Outstanding Recognized
in Balance
Sheet Outstanding Recognized in
Balance Sheet Guarantees
Mahindra Racing UK Limited Subsidiary of the Company . — — — Mahindra USA Inc. Subsidiary of the Company . — . — Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. Subsidiary of the Company — — . — Sampo Rosenlew Oy Associate of the Company — — . — PF Holding B.V. Associate of the Company . . . . Note:- a)	Inter corporate deposits given and repaid during the year amounting to Rs. . crores to Classic Legends Private Limited, Rs. . crores
To Mahindra Airways Limited and Rs. . crores to Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. b)	Above inter corporate deposits and loans have been given for general business purposes (including investment purposes) and guarantees have
been given against their borrowing obligation which have been taken for general corporate purpose. c) Refer note for investments. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Details of Investments made/Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given to intermediaries :
A. Details of Investments made or Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given to Intermediaries :
Rupees crores
Name of Company Date of transaction Amount Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited Various . Mahindra Holdings Limited Various . Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Private Limited Various . Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. 20th January, . Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. 30th January, . Subsidiary Companies: B. Details of further Investments made or Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given by Intermediary to Ultimate Beneficiary:
Rupees crores
Name of intermediary Name of ultimate beneficiary Date of transaction Amount Subsidiary Companies Subsidiary Companies Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited Automobili Pininfarina GmbH various . Mahindra Holdings Limited Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited various . Mahindra Telecom Energy Management
Services Private Limited Mahindra Solarize Private Limited various . Mahindra Telecom Energy Management
Services Private Limited Mahindra Susten Private Limited 9th December, . Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l. Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. 20th January, . Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l. Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. 30th January, . Above transactions are in compliance with relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, ( of ), Companies Act, and Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, .
C. Details of each Intermediary/Ultimate Beneficiary:
Name of Company Registered address Identification number
(CIN/Others) Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Private Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U64204MH2017PLC296621
Limited
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India
Classic Legends Private Limited Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U34101MH2015PTC265665
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India Mahindra Solarize Private Limited Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U40106MH2021PTC358435
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India Mahindra Fruits Private Limited Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U01403MH2014PTC255946
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India Mahindra HZPC Private Limited Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U01403MH2013PTC242474
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Details of Investments made/Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given to intermediaries : (contd.)
C. Details of each Intermediary/Ultimate Beneficiary : (cont.)
Name of Company Registered address Identification number
(CIN/Others) Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U01400MH2000PLC125781
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India Mahindra Susten Private Limited 2nd Floor, Technosoft Knowledge Gateway, Wagle U74990MH2010PTC207854
Industrial Estate, Thane, India Mega Suryaurja Private Limited 2nd Floor, Technosoft Knowledge Gateway, Wagle U40103MH2012PTC226016
Industrial Estate, Thane, India Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited 2nd Floor, Technosoft Knowledge Gateway, Wagle U40108MH2013PTC250683
Industrial Estate, Thane, India Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. -, Boulevard de la Pétrusse L-, Luxembourg B Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited Sanne House, Twenty Eight, Bank Street, Mauritius Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited Sanne House, Twenty Eight, Bank Street, Mauritius Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. rue du Novembre Mandeure, France FR71875550667 Automobili Pininfarina GmbH Dingolfinger Strade , Munchen, Germany HRB Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc. Bayview Drive, Fremont, CA94538, USA EIN: - Mahindra Automotive North America Inc. Rex Blvd Auburn Hills Michigan , USA EIN - BSA Company Limited Athenia House - Andover Road Winchester Hampshire, United Kingdom . Segment information
Operating Segments The reportable segments of the Company are Automotive and Farm Equipment. The segments are largely organised and managed separately according
to the organisation structure that is designed based on the nature of products and services and profile of customers. Operating segments are reported
in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Chairman and Managing Director jointly regarded as the Chief Operating
Decision Maker (“CODM”). Description of each of the reportable segments for all periods presented, is as under.
(a) Automotive : This segment comprises of sale of automobiles, spares, mobility solutions, Construction Equipment and related services; (b) Farm Equipment : This segment comprises of sale of tractors, implements, spares and related services; (c) Others : This segment comprise of Powerol, Two Wheelers and Spares Business Unit. The CODM evaluates the Company’s performance and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators by operating segments.
The CODM reviews revenue and gross profit as the performance indicator for all of the operating segments. The measurement of each segment’s revenues, expenses and assets is consistent with the accounting policies that are used in preparation of the financial
statements. Segment profit represents the profit before interest and tax. .
,. Total Revenue................................................................... ,. Segment Result ............................................................... ,.
,. Income Taxes........................................................................ Profit after tax................................................................. ,.
,. Additions to non current assets............................. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
expense....................................................................................
. . ,. . (.) . . ,. ,. ,. ,. — — — — ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — ,. ,. . ,. Automotive . . ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — ,. ,. . ,. Farm
Equipment . . . . . . . — . ,. . ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — ,. ,. . ,. Other Total Segment — — — — — — — — — (.) (.) — Eliminations ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,. ,. (.) ,. . ,. — ,. ,. — ,. Total Rupees crores Note:Additions to non-current assets comprises of capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress, intangible assets including those under development and capital advances. ,. Total Liabilities................................................................. ,. ,. Unallocated Corporate Liabilities — Segment Liabilities........................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Total Assets........................................................................ ,. ,. ,. Unallocated Corporate Assets.................................. Segment Assets.................................................................. OTHER INFORMATION ,. . Total ,. Revenue from contracts with customers............ Revenue from other sources.................................... Out of total external revenue above:- ,. . ,. (.) ,. ,. — ,. Total Profit before tax............................................................. — — — — (.) (.) — Eliminations (.) ,. ,. (.) ,. ,. . ,. Total
Segment ,. ,. . — . ,. . ,. Other Exceptional items unallocable to segments.. ,. ,. — ,. ,. . ,. Farm
Equipment Unallocated corporate income net of
unallocated expenses..................................................... Add: Finance costs ,. (.) Exceptional Item allocated to segments............ Less: ,. Segment Result.................................................................. Result ,. Inter Segment Revenue................................................ Automotive External Revenue.............................................................. Revenue Particulars Operating Segments (contd.)
Information regarding the Company’s reportable segments is presented below: . Segment information (contd.) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Segment information (contd.)
Revenue from type of products and services The operating segments are primarily based on nature of products and services and hence the Revenue from external customers of each segment is
representative of revenue based on products and services.
Geographical Information:
Rupees crores
Particulars Revenue from External Customers................................ Domestic Overseas Total Domestic Overseas Total ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. comprising of:
– Revenue from contracts with customers...... ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. – Revenue from other sources................................. . . . . . . Non-Current Assets.................................................................... ,. — ,. ,. — ,. Domestic includes sales to customers located in India and service income accrued in India.
Overseas includes sales and services rendered to customers located outside India.
Information about major customers During the years ended 31st March, and 31st March, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer amount to % or more
of the Company’s revenues from external customers.
. Contingent Liability & Commitments:
(A) Contingent Liability: (a) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts comprise of: (i)	Excise Duty, Sales Tax and Service Tax claims disputed by the Company relating to issues of applicability and classification aggregating
Rs. ,. crores ( : Rs. ,. crores) before tax. (ii) Taxation matters: (b) (i)	Demands against the Company not acknowledged as debts and not provided for, in respect of which the Company is in appeal and
exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed: Other matters (excluding claims where amounts are not ascertainable) : Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores) before tax. – Income-tax : Rs. ,. crores ( : Rs. . crores) net off MAT credit. (ii)	Items in respect of which the Company has succeeded in appeal, but the Income-tax Department is pursuing/likely to pursue in appeal/
reference and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed: – Income-tax matters : Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores). (c)	In respect of (a) & (b) above, it is not practicable for the Company to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of
cash flows, if any. (d) Financial guarantee given on behalf of Subsidiaries/Associates/Joint Ventures companies [Refer Note () (a)]. (B) Commitments: (i)	The estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided is Rs. ,. crores ( :
Rs. ,. crores) and other commitments Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores). (ii)	Uncalled liability on partly paid equity shares of Subsidiary(ies) company as at 31st March, Rs. ,. crores ( : Rs. . crores) . Other information:
(A) Research and Development expenditure (a) In recognised Research and Development units: (i)	Expensed to Profit or Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Company, aggregate Rs. . crores
( : Rs. . crores) [excluding depreciation and amortisation of Rs. ,. crores ( : Rs. . crores)]. (ii) Development expenditure incurred during the year Rs. ,. crores ( : Rs. ,. crores). (iii) Capitalisation of assets Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores). In other units: (b) (i)	Expensed to Profit or Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Company, aggregate Rs. . crores
( : Rs. . crores) [excluding depreciation and amortisation of Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores)]. (ii) Development expenditure incurred during the year Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores). (iii) Capitalisation of assets Rs. . crores ( : Rs. . crores). MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Other information: (contd.)
(B) (i)	The Scheme of Merger by Absorption of a subsidiary, Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (‘MEML’) with the Company and their respective
Shareholders (‘the Scheme’) has been approved by the Mumbai Bench of National Company Law Tribunal on 13th January, . The Scheme
has taken effect from the appointed date i.e., 1st April, . (ii)	The above scheme of merger have been accounted under ‘the pooling of interests method’ i.e. in accordance with Appendix C of Ind AS – Business Combinations and comparatives have been restated for the merger from the beginning of previous year i.e., 1st April, .
Accordingly, the impact of MEML has been included in the standalone financial statements for the previous period presented. The effect of the
merger on the amounts of Revenue and Profit published in the respective period are as shown in the below table.
Rupees crores
Particulars Revenue from operations:
As published in previous year....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. As restated for the effect of merger....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. Profit/(loss) after tax:
As published in previous year....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. As restated for the effect of merger....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Additional Regulatory Information:
a. Ratios:
Rupees crores
Particulars Debt-Equity Ratio (times)
(Long term Borrowings + Short term Borrowings (including current maturities of long term
borrowings)/(Total Equity)................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)
(Profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairments and exceptional items)/(Gross
interest for the period + Principal repayments within a year).............................................................................................. . . Return on Equity
(Net Profit for the period/Average Total Equity for the period)........................................................................................... .% .% Inventory Turnover (times)
(Cost of materials consumed/Average Inventories for the period)..................................................................................... . . Trade Receivables Turnover (times)
(Revenue from sale of goods and services)/(Average Trade Receivable for the period)................................... . . Trade Payables Turnover (times)
(Purchase of goods and services + Other Expenses)/(Average Trade Payable for the period)...................... . . Net Capital Turnover (times)
(Revenue from operations)/[Average working capital (Current assets less Current liabilities) for the
period]............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Net Profit margin (%)
(Net Profit for the period/Revenue from operations).................................................................................................................. .% .% Return on Capital Employed (%)
(Profit before interest and tax/(Average Total Equity + Average Total Debt for the period).......................... .% .% Return on Investment (%)
(Income earned on investments/Average Investment for the period).............................................................................. .% .% Explanatory notes: (i)	Cost of materials consumed for the purpose of Inventory turnover ratio includes Purchases of stock-in-trade and Changes in inventories of
finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress. (ii)	Investments includes current and non-current investments including Fixed deposits, Mutual funds, Corporate deposits, Inter corporate deposits
excluding investments in Equity instruments. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Additional Regulatory Information: (contd.)
a. Ratios: (contd.) Explanation for change in the ratios by more than %: (i)	Debt Equity Ratio (times) : The debt equity ratio is at . in current year as against . in previous year primarily due to repayment of
borrowings during the year. (ii)	Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times) : The debt service coverage ratio is at . in current year as against . in previous year primarily
due to repayment of borrowings during the year. b. Transaction with Struck off Companies:
Rupees crores
Receivables Payables Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Argus Media Pvt Ltd................................................................................................... — * — — — Asmita Fire Safety Private Limited.................................................................. * — — — — Babace Pneumatics Private Limited............................................................... — * — — — Badri Sarraf Finance And Mutual Benefit Company Limited......... — — — — Baux Arch Tech Pvt Ltd........................................................................................... — * — — — Beauty Xl India Pvt Ltd............................................................................................ * — — — — Bkg Securities Limited.............................................................................................. — — — — C Cube Sports Private Limited........................................................................... — . — — — Chowdhary Motors Pvt Ltd................................................................................... . — — — — Country Inn & Suites By Carlson (A U)......................................................... * — — — — Diamond Automobiles Pvt Ltd............................................................................ — . — — — Dimension Data India Private Limited............................................................ — . — — — Dimensions Engineering Technologies........................................................... — — — * — Dreams Comtrade Private Limited................................................................... — — — — East West Power Genset Pvt., Ltd.,.................................................................. — * — — — Elegant Finvest Private Limited......................................................................... — — — — Enffluence Technologies Limited....................................................................... — . — — — Frontline Corporate Finance Ltd........................................................................ — — , — — Garlick Designing And Consultancy Pvt Ltd.............................................. — — — — Greenair Engg. Solutions P.Ltd............................................................................ * — — — — H.K. Exports Private Limited................................................................................ — — — — Hanaro Hospitality Private Limited.................................................................. — * — — — Hbn Homes Colonisers Private Limited........................................................ * — — — — Heeraraj R&D And Automations........................................................................ * — — * — High Calibre Cnc Centre Private Limited..................................................... . — — — — Horizon Staffing And Technical Solutions Private Limited.............. * — — — — Horizon Staffing Solutions Private Limited................................................ * — — — — Hudson Engineering Industries Pvt Ltd........................................................ — — , — — Jagat Trading Enterprises Limited.................................................................... — — — — Jaipal Consultancy Private Limited.................................................................. — — — — Janardana Investments Pvt Ltd......................................................................... — — — — Name of the Struck off Company MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Additional Regulatory Information: (contd.)
b. Transaction with Struck off Companies: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Receivables Payables Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Joseph Cardijn Auto Ser. Pvt Ltd...................................................................... * * — — — K S Furniture Makers Pvt Ltd............................................................................. — . — — — Kamla Landmarc Cars Pvt. Ltd........................................................................... — * — — — Leela Trade Link Private Limited....................................................................... * — — — — Lektronix India Private Limited........................................................................... * — — — — Loni Corporate Training Pvt. Ltd........................................................................ — — — * — Magnate Leasing And Finance Private Limited....................................... — — — — Maptronicz Technologies Pvt Ltd...................................................................... — * — — — Midwest Mutual Fund Limited............................................................................. — — — — Niche Events And Promotions Private Limited....................................... . — — — — Nttf Industries Private Limited........................................................................... * — — — — Oxford Automotive Private Limited................................................................. * — — — — Pals Specalised Tooling System Priv.............................................................. — — — * — Popular Stock And Share Services Private Limited............................. — — , — — Positive Leasing And Finance Pvt Ltd........................................................... — — , — — Purushothama Investments Pvt Ltd............................................................... — — — — R.S.Ajit Singh & Co...................................................................................................... . — — — . Rajpal Control Systems Private Limited...................................................... — — — — Ray Shield Technology Private Limited........................................................ — . — — — Right View Audio Visual Pvt Ltd........................................................................ — * — — — Rishiroop Polymers Pvt. Ltd. (Trnsfr)............................................................. — — , — — Robomatrix Automation & Solutions Private Limited........................ . — — — — Rofin Baasel Laser India Private Limited..................................................... * — — — — S J N Industries............................................................................................................. * — — — — Safna Consultancy Private Limited.................................................................. — — — — Sahil Genset Sales Private Limited.................................................................. — * — — — Sartaj Mega Project India Pvt Ltd.................................................................... * * — — — Serene Paints & Colors Pvt Ltd......................................................................... — . — — — Shalaka Technologies Pvt. Ltd............................................................................. — . — — — Shivraj Oils Pvt Ltd..................................................................................................... — — — * — Sincere Securities Private Limited................................................................... — — — — Sindhudurg Investments Pvt. Ltd...................................................................... — — — — Sirius Transtech Pvt. Ltd......................................................................................... — . — — — Suviron Products Private Limited..................................................................... — — — — Technosteel Commercial Kitchen Equipments Private Limited... . — — — — Name of the Struck off Company COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Additional Regulatory Information: (contd.)
b. Transaction with Struck off Companies: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Receivables Payables Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities The India Sugar Agencies Private Limited..................................................... — — — — Think Creative Communications Private Limited.................................... — * — — — Ti Tsubamex Private Limited................................................................................ — . — — — Vennela And Venket Saai Projects India Private Limited................. * — — — — Versatile Options And Solutions Private Limited................................... — . — — — Welcome Telecom Pvt Ltd..................................................................................... — * — — — Name of the Struck off Company * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. Note: The above information is provided on basis of reasonable diligence done to ascertain relevant companies that have been struck off on the
website of the Ministry of Company Affairs. c. Quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with banks are in agreement with the books of accounts. . As described in note 44B, previous period’s figures have been regrouped/restated wherever necessary.
Signatures to Notes to The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Membership No : Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - )
Mumbai, 26th May, Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
 Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries
(Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates and its joint ventures, which comprise the consolidated balance
sheet as at March , and the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), consolidated statement of changes
in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of reports of the other
auditors on separate/consolidated financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as were audited by the other auditors, the
aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true
and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its associates and
joint ventures as at March , of its consolidated profit and other comprehensive loss, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows
for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section () of the Act. Our responsibilities under those
SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent
of the Group, its associates and joint ventures in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial
statements in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with the
consideration of reports of the other auditors referred to in paragraph (a) of the “Other Matters” section below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment and based on the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate/
consolidated financial statements of components audited by them, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the
current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matters
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Impairment assessment of tangible assets and development expenditure
capitalised and currently under development Our audit procedures included: The Group’s Automotive Cash Generating Units (‘Auto CGU’) have
aggregate tangible assets of Rs , crores, which includes property,
plant and equipment of Rs , crores and capital-work-in-progress
of Rs crores as at March . Further, the Auto CGU has
development expenditure capitalized of Rs , crores, and intangible
assets under development of Rs , crores.
Changes in business environment, including market or economic environment,
geopolitical situation and general inflationary trend could have a significant
impact on the valuation of the tangible and intangible assets of the Auto
CGU. The tangible and intangible assets of the Auto CGU are tested for
impairment periodically. The Group assesses the carrying amounts of the
tangible and intangible assets to determine indicators of impairment loss as
the recoverable values rely on certain assumptions and estimates of future
performance which impact the valuation. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount which is the higher of VIU or fair value less cost to
sell of the Auto CGU, is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised in
the statement of profit and loss. The carrying amount of the tangible and
intangible assets of Auto CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
See Note (h) to consolidated financial statements •	Assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness
of key controls in respect of the Group’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models;
•	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash
flows such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation
and growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived
data, past performances, consistency with the Board approved
investment plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Involved valuation specialists as applicable, to evaluate the
assumptions including the discount rates used in VIU calculations;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management;
•	Evaluated the stage of development of the intangible assets,
judgments used for expected probable economic benefits and
associated expenditures, and their assessment of feasibility of the
projects; and
•	Assessed the adequacy of disclosures on key judgements,
assumptions and quantitative data with respect to impairment
losses. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Key audit matters
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Assessment of control on acquisition /divestment of interest
in group companies Our audit procedures include: The Group operates in various segments such as automotive,
hospitality, financial services, real estate etc.
During the year, the Holding Company undertook various
transactions as part of its capital allocation strategy involving
acquisition and divestment of shareholding in various companies
within the Group, its associates and joint ventures. This requires
management to exercise judgement whether these transactions
alter the assessment of control, joint control or significant
influence under the accounting standards. The cumulative
size and importance of these transactions in the consolidated
financial statements is significant. •	Assessed management’s evaluation of the implication of significant
transactions on assessment of control, joint control or significant influence
based on the shareholders agreement and other indicators of control
over relevant activities on acquisition or divestment of interest in group
companies.
•	Independently, verified the terms of the shareholders agreement including
rights available with each shareholder such as ability to participate in the
operating decision making, contractual right to appoint director, participative
rights available with other shareholders, dispersal of shareholders etc;
•	Examined the adequacy of disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. Impairment loss allowance in the financial services business The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component included: As at March , the carrying value of loan assets
measured at amortised cost, aggregated Rs , crore
(net of allowance of expected credit loss Rs , crore)
constituting approximately % of the financial service’s
business total assets. Significant judgement is used in classifying
these loan assets and applying appropriate measurement
principles. ECL on such loan assets measured at amortised cost
is a critical estimate involving greater level of management
judgement. As part of the component auditor’s risk assessment,
they determined that the ECL on such loan assets has a high
degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of
reasonable outcomes. The elements of estimating ECL which
involved increased level of audit focus are the following: Examined the policies approved by the Board of Directors of the component that
articulate the objectives of managing each portfolio and their business models. The
component auditor have also verified the methodology adopted for computation
of ECL (“ECL Model”) that addresses policies approved by the Board of Directors
of the component, procedures and controls for assessing and measuring credit
risk on all lending exposures measured at amortised cost. Additionally, the
component auditor have confirmed that adjustments to the output of the ECL
Model is consistent with the documented rationale and basis for such adjustments
and that the amount of adjustment has been approved by the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors of the component. The audit procedures related to the
allowance for ECL included the following, among others:
• a.	completeness and accuracy of the EAD and the classification thereof
into stages consistent with the definitions applied in accordance with
the policy approved by the Board of Directors of the component
including the appropriateness of the qualitative factors to be applied; •	Qualitative and quantitative factors used in staging the
loan assets measured at amortised cost;
•	Basis used for estimating Probabilities of Default (“PD”),
Loss Given Default (“LGD”) and Exposure at Default (“EAD”)
at product level with past trends; b.	completeness, accuracy and appropriateness of information used in
the estimation of the PD and LGD for the different stages depending
on the nature of the portfolio; and •	Judgements used in projecting economic scenarios and
probability weights applied to reflect future economic
conditions; and
•	Adjustments to model driven ECL results to address
emerging trends. Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the following: c.	accuracy of the computation of the ECL estimate including
reasonableness of the methodology used to determine macroeconomic overlays and adjustments to the output of the ECL Model.
• Test of details on a sample in respect of the following:
a.	accuracy and completeness of the input data such as period of default
and other related information used in estimating the PD;
b.	the mathematical accuracy of the ECL computation by using the same
input data as used by the component;
c.	completeness and accuracy of the staging of the loans and the
underlying data based on which the ECL estimates have been
computed; and
d.	evaluating the adequacy of the adjustment made to the output as per
the ECL Model to ensure that the adjustment was in conformity with
the amount approved by the Audit Committee of the component. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Other Information
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Holding Company’s annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. The
Holding Company’s annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements
or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Holding Company’s annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
the matter to those charged with governance and take necessary actions, as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements
in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs, consolidated profit/loss and other comprehensive
income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its associates and joint ventures in accordance
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section of the Act.
The respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures are responsible for
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company and for preventing
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements
that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation
of the consolidated financial statements by the Management and Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its
associates and joint ventures are responsible for assessing the ability of each company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company
or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures are responsible for overseeing the
financial reporting process of each company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud
or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform
audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under
Section ()(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Management
and Board of Directors. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS •	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation of consolidated
financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group
and its associates and joint ventures to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial statements of such entities or business activities within the Group and its associates
and joint ventures to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of
the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the
other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for
the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our responsibilities in
this regard are further described in paragraph (a) of the section titled “Other Matters” in this audit report.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated financial statements of
which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and
to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
a.	We did not audit the financial statements of subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments)
of Rs , crore as at March , total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs , crore and net cash outflows (before
consolidation adjustments) amounting to Rs crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements. The
consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit (and other comprehensive income) (before consolidation adjustments)
of Rs crore for the year ended March , in respect of associates and joint ventures, whose financial statements have not been
audited by us. These financial statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our
opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section () of Section of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries,
joint ventures and associates is based solely on the reports of the other auditors. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect
of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.
b.	The financial statements of subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs crore as at March , total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs crore and net cash outflows (before consolidation adjustments) amounting
to Rs crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, have not been audited either by us or by other
auditors. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit (and other comprehensive income) (before consolidation
adjustments) of Rs crore for the year ended March , as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of associates
and joint ventures, whose financial statements have not been audited by us or by other auditors. These unaudited financial statements have been
furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures
included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section () of Section of the Act in so far
as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, is based solely on such unaudited financial statements. In our opinion and
according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, these financial statements are not material to the Group.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect of
this matter with respect to the financial statements certified by the Management. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
.	As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of Section () of
the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs and of the Order, to the extent applicable.
. (A)	As required by Section () of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate/consolidated
financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as were audited by other auditors, as noted in the “Other Matters”
paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that: a.	We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the
purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements. b.	In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements have
been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors. c.	The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the consolidated
statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant
books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements. d. e.	On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on March taken on record
by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies, its associate companies and joint
ventures incorporated in India is disqualified as on March from being appointed as a director in terms of Section () of
the Act. f.	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company and its
subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer
to our separate Report in “Annexure B”. In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section of the Act. (B)	With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, , in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of
the reports of the other auditors on separate/consolidated financial statements of the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as noted in
the “Other Matters” paragraph: a.	The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at March on the consolidated financial position
of the Group, its associates and joint ventures. Refer Note to the consolidated financial statements. b.	Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or Ind AS, for material foreseeable
losses, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts. Refer Note to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such
items as it relates to the Group, its associates and joint ventures. c.	There has been no delay in transferring amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Holding Company or its subsidiary
companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India during the year ended March . d (i)	The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have
been audited have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no
funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds)
by the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”),
with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies (“Ultimate
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (ii)	The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have
been audited have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no
funds have been received by the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies from any persons or entities, including foreign entities
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or such subsidiary
companies shall directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the
Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like from or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (iii)	Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances performed by us and that
performed by the auditor of the subsidiary company incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act,
nothing has come to our or other auditor notice that has caused us or the other auditor to believe that the representations under subclause (i) and (ii) of Rule (e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material misstatement. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS e.	The dividend declared or paid during the year by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures
incorporated in India is in compliance with Section of the Act. f.	As proviso to rule () of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, is applicable for the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary companies,
associate companies and joint ventures only with effect from April, , reporting under Rule (g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, is not applicable. (C) With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section () of the Act: In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the reports of the statutory auditors of such subsidiary
companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India which were not audited by us, the remuneration paid during the current
year by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures to its directors is in accordance with the
provisions of Section of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not
prescribed other details under Section () of the Act which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W- Place : Mumbai
Date : May Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJG1038 MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March (Referred to in paragraph under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(xxi)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, following companies incorporated in India and included in the
consolidated financial statements, have unfavourable remarks, qualification or adverse remarks given by the respective auditors in their reports
under the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, (CARO):
Sr.
No. Name of the entities CIN Relationship Clause number of the CARO report which
is unfavourable or qualified or adverse Kota Farm Services Limited U02005MH2001PLC131699 Subsidiary Clause (XVII) and (XIX) Mahindra Construction Company Limited U45200MH1992PLC068846 Subsidiary Clause (XIX) Officemartindia.com Limited U74999MH2000PLC126610 Subsidiary Clause (XVII) and (XIX) Transtech Logistics Private Limited U60231KA2008PTC048036 Joint Venture Clause (XIX) In addition to the above, there are certain companies in the Group whose auditors have reported cash losses in the financial year under clause (XVII) of
the CARO report. Based on information and explanations provided to us, in our opinion, these observations are not considered unfavourable or qualified
or adverse in nature and hence not reported under this clause.
The above does not include comments, if any, in respect of the following entities as the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by its auditor
till the date of principal auditor’s report.
Name of the entities CIN Relationship Aquasail Distribution Private Limited U93090MH2006PTC164021 Joint Venture Brainbees Solutions Private Limited U51100PN2010PTC136340 Associate Medwell Ventures Private Limited U85100GJ2014PTC079080 Associate New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited U85120MH2002PLC338742 Joint Venture ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited U40300DL2020PTC374527 Associate
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W- Place : Mumbai
Date : May Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJG1038 COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the consolidated financial statements
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March  Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of
Sub‑section of Section of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph (A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) as
of and for the year ended March , we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company and
such companies incorporated in India under the Act which are its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, as of that date.
In our opinion and based on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on internal financial controls with reference to financial statements
of subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures, as were audited by the other auditors, the Holding Company and such companies
incorporated in India which are its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, have, in all material respects, adequate internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements and such internal financial controls were operating effectively as at March , based on
the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by such companies considering the essential components of
such internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on
the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the respective company considering the essential components
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and
the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section () of the Act, to the extent applicable to an
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the relevant subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that () pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; ()
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of
management and directors of the company; and () provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid report under Section ()(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements insofar as it relates to subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in
India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
The internal financial controls with reference to financial statements insofar as it relates to associate companies and joint ventures, which are
companies incorporated in India and included in these consolidated financial statements, have not been audited either by us or by other auditors. In our
opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, such unaudited associate companies and joint ventures are
not material to the Holding Company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W- Place : Mumbai
Date : May Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJG1038 COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Consolidated Balance Sheet | as at 31st March, Rupees crores
I. ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Capital work-in-progress.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Goodwill............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other intangible assets.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets under development........................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments accounted using equity method.......................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax assets (net)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Income tax assets (net)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current assets....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents..................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents...................................................................................................................................
(v)
Loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(vi) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current assets..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Assets classified as held for sale................................................................................................................................................................................................... II. TOTAL ASSETS.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other equity..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Equity attributable to owners of the company...................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(ia) Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ib) Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade payables Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises.............................................
(iii) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax liabilities (net)...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current liabilities..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(ia) Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ib) Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade payables
(a)
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises.....................................................................................
(b)
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises...................................
(iii) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current liabilities.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Current tax liabilities (net).................................................................................................................................................................................................................
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES............................................................................................................................................................................................... Note ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,,. ,.
.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,. ,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,,. .
,.
,.
,.
,. .
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. .
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. .
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
. ,.
. .
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,. .
,.
,.
,.
.
.
,.
,,. The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Membership No : Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - )
Mumbai, 26th May, Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss | for the year ended 31st March, Rupees crores
INCOME
Revenue from operations...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other income..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Income..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Purchases of stock-in-trade ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress.........................................................................................................
Employee benefits expense..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Finance costs ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense ...................................................................................................................................................................
Other expenses .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Expenses ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit Before Exceptional Items, share of profit of associates and joint ventures and tax .............................................................
Exceptional items (net)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (net)..................................................................................................................................................................
Profit Before Tax ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Tax Expense
Current tax .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit for the year .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)
A.
(i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (a) Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans ....................................................................................................................................... (b) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income ............................................................................................................ (c) Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investees.....................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss......................................................................................
B.
(i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss (a) Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations .................................................. (b) Debt instruments through other comprehensive income ................................................................................................................ (c)	Effective portion of gains/(losses) on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge............... (d)	Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investees ..................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss ..............................................................................................
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss).....................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year....................................................................................................................................................................
Profit /(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Note ,,.
,.
,,. ,.
.
,. ,.
,.
(,.)
,.
,.
,.
,.
,,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
(.)
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,. (,.)
.
,. (,.)
(.)
,. (.)
(.)
.
. .
(.)
.
(.) (.)
(.)
(.)
.
.
(.)
,. (.)
(.)
.
.
(.)
(.)
,. ,.
,.
,. ,.
.
,. (.)
(.)
(.) (.)
(.)
(.) ,.
,.
,. ,.
.
,. .
. .
. Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Earnings per equity share
(Face value Rs. /- per share) (Rupees)
Basic ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Diluted ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Membership No : Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - )
Mumbai, 26th May, Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, —
.
,. —
—
. .
. — . (.) — (.) —
,. — — . — — (.) — . — — — — (.)
,. . — — — — — — (.) . — (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. —
(.) — — — — — — — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Debt
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income —
(.) — — — — — — — — (.) — — (.) (.) — (.) Equity
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income —
(.) — — — — — — — — — (.) — (.) (.) — (.) Effective
portion of Cash
Flow Hedges
(Refer Note (a) (ii)) . . — (.) . (.) — — — (.) (,.) ,. (.) ,. — — — — — (.) . — — — (.) ,. (.) ,. ,. . . — (.) . (.) . — — (.) (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. —
(.)
.
(.)
(.) ,. ,. ,. — — — — — — — — — (.) — . . — (.) ,. Remeasurement gain (net) on defined benefit plans, net of deferred tax, aggregating to Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) has been recognised during the year as part of retained earnings. Hyperinflation adjustment.............................
Transactions with non-controlling interest
and changes in group's interest...................
As at 31st March, ....................................... — —
— (.) — — . — — — — — — — — — — ,. Retained
earnings STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS Share-based payment to employees.......... Exercise of employee stock options..............
Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
trust to employees...........................................
On account of employee stock options
lapsed ................................................................... — — (.) — — —
— — — — — — — — — — . Other
reserves Total BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT On disposal of subsidiaries during the year. Transfers from Retained earnings...............
On business combinations during the
year....................................................................... Dividend paid on equity shares....................
Other comprehensive income reclassified
to profit or loss.................................................
Other comprehensive income /(loss)
reclassified to Retained earnings................. — — ,. — — . Shares
options
outstanding
account Total other
equity
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE Other comprehensive income /(loss)...........
Total comprehensive income /(loss) for
the year.............................................................. Profit /(loss) for the year............................... Securities
premium Items of other comprehensive income Rupees crores
Noncontrolling
interests MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS As at 1st April, ...................................... Capital
reserve on
consolidation Reserves and surplus Attributable to owners of the company .
—
.
.
—
. BOARD’S
REPORT Particulars .
—
.
.
.
. Rupees crores COMPANY
OVERVIEW (B) Other Equity Issued, subscribed and paid up:
Balance as at the beginning of the year..............................................................................
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period error.......................................
Restated balance..................................................................................................................................
Add: Allotment of shares by M&M ESOP Trust to Employees...............................
Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement.......................................................
Balance as at the end of the year......................................................................................... Particulars (A) Equity Share Capital Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS —
— —
—
—
. —
— —
—
—
—
—
—
.
—
—
—
—
—
—
. Total comprehensive income /(loss) for
the year............................................................................ Dividend paid on equity shares......................... Other comprehensive income reclassified
to profit or loss............................................................. Other comprehensive income /(loss)
reclassified to Retained earnings..................... Transfers from Retained earnings........................ On business combinations during the year..... On disposal of subsidiaries during the year.... Exercise of employee stock options................... Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
trust to employees....................................................... On account of employee stock options
lapsed................................................................................... Share-based payment to employees.................. Transactions with non-controlling interest
and changes in group's interest........................ As at March, ....................................... st — — Profit /(loss) for the year...................................... Other comprehensive income /(loss)............. ,. — (.) — — — ,. . — . (.) — (.) — — — — — — — — — . Shares
options
outstanding
account ,. — — . — — — — . — — — — — — ,. Other
reserves Reserves and surplus
Securities
premium . Capital
reserve on
consolidation As at 1st April, .............................................. Particulars (B) Other Equity (contd.) ,. (.) — — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) ,. . ,. ,. Retained
earnings (.) — — — — — — — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Debt
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income (.) — — — — — — — — . — — (.) (.) — (.) Equity
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income (.) — — — — — — — — — (.) — . . — (.) Effective
portion of Cash
Flow Hedges
(Refer Note (a) (ii)) Items of other comprehensive income Attributable to owners of the company Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, (contd.) (.) (.) — — — — — — — — . — (.) (.) — (.) Foreign
currency
translation
reserve ,. (.) . — (.) — — . — — . (.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Total other
equity ,. (.) — — — — . . — — — (.) . (.) . ,. ,. (.) . — (.) — . . — — . (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Total Rupees crores
Noncontrolling
interests MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, (contd.)
(C) Other reserves
Rupees crores
Particulars Capital
Redemption
Reserve Capital Reserve Debenture General Reserve
Redemption
Reserve Statutory
Reserve Total As at 1st April, ............................................................................ . . . ,. ,. ,. Transfer from retained earnings.......................................................................... — — — — . . On disposal of subsidiaries during the year................................................ — — (.) — — (.) On account of employee stock options lapsed........................................ — — — . — . As at 31st March, ...................................................................... . . . ,. ,. ,. As at 1st April, ............................................................................ . . . ,. ,. ,. Transfer from retained earnings.......................................................................... — — — — . . On account of employee stock options lapsed........................................ — — — . — . As at 31st March, ...................................................................... . . . ,. ,. ,. (D) Notes
a)	The Company has reduced the share capital by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) and securities premium by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) for the
,,, shares of Rs. each (: ,,, shares of Rs. each) held by the M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees.
b)	The Company has also reduced the share capital by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) and retained earnings by Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores) for
,,, shares of Rs. each (: ,,, shares of Rs. each) held by M&M Benefit Trust.
c)	The share capital of the Company has also been reduced and the securities premium increased by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) for ,,, bonus shares of
Rs. each (: ,,, bonus shares of Rs. each) issued by the Company to M&M ESOP Trust and for ,,, bonus shares of Rs. each (: ,,, bonus
shares of Rs. each) issued by the Company to M&M Benefit Trust in December, . (E) Description of the nature and purpose of reserves
(i) Capital reserve Capital reserve represents receipt of Government grants from a package of incentive given by Maharashtra Government for setting up /extension of plants in specified areas.
(ii) Capital reserve on consolidation Gain on bargain purchase, i.e., excess of fair value of net assets acquired over the fair value of consideration in a business combination or on acquisition of interest in associate is
recognised as capital reserve on consolidation.
(iii) Securities premium Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The fair value of employee stock options is recognised in securities premium once the shares have been
allotted on exercise of the options.
(iv) General reserve The general reserve comprises of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. The reserve can be distributed /utilised by the Company in accordance with
the Companies Act, .
(v) Retained earnings Retained earnings comprises of accumulated balance of profits/(losses) of current and prior years including transfers made to /from other reserves from time to time. The reserve
can be utilised or distributed by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, (vi) Debenture redemption reserve Debenture redemption reserve is a statutory reserve (as per Companies Act, ) created out of profits of the company available for payment of dividend for the purpose of
redemption of debentures issued by the Company. On completion of redemption, the reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
(vii) Share option outstanding account The share option outstanding account represents reserve in respect of equity settled share options granted to the Company’s employees in pursuance of the employee stock
option plan.
(viii) Statutory reserve (ix) Statutory reserve has been created pursuant to section - IC of the RBI Act, and section 29C of the National Housing Act, .
Capital redemption reserve Capital redemption reserve was created against redemption of preference shares.
The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements In terms of our report attached. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Membership No : Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - )
Mumbai, 26th May, Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the years presented. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised and future periods affected. Key sources of estimation uncertainty at the date of financial statements, which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities within the next financial year, is in respect of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets, provision
for product warranties, fair value of financial assets /liabilities and impairment of investments and goodwill. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year are discussed below:
i) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets The Group reviews the useful lifes of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets at the end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in depreciation and amortisation expense in future periods.
ii) Provision for product warranties The Group recognises provision for warranties in respect of the products that it sells. Provisions are discounted, where necessary, to its present
value based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date
and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
iii) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities and investments The Group measures certain financial assets and liabilities on fair value basis at each balance sheet date or at the time they are assessed
for impairment. Fair value measurement that are based on significant unobservable inputs (Level ) requires estimates of operating margin,
discount rate, future growth rate, terminal values, etc. based on management’s best estimate about future developments.
iv) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets including goodwill The Group estimates the value in use of the cash generating unit (CGU) based on the future cash flows after considering current economic
conditions and trends, estimated future operating results and growth rate and anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions. The
estimated cash flows are developed using internal forecasts. The discount rate used for the CGUs represent the weighted average cost of
capital based on historical market returns of comparable companies. v) Impairment of financial services receivable The measurement of impairment losses on loan assets and commitments, requires judgement, in estimating the amount and timing of future
cash flows and recoverability of collateral values while determining the impairment losses and assessing a significant increase in credit risk. The financial services business Expected Credit Loss (ECL) calculation is the output of a complex model with a number of underlying
assumptions regarding the choice of variable inputs and their interdependencies. Elements of the ECL model that are considered in accounting
judgements and estimates include: —	The financial services business criteria for assessing if there has been a significant increase in credit risk —	The segmentation of financial assets when their ECL is assessed on a collective basis —	Development of ECL model, including the various formulae and the choice of inputs —	Selection of forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios and their probability weights, to derive the economic inputs into the ECL model —	Management overlay used in circumstances where management judges that the existing inputs, assumptions and model techniques do
not capture all the risk factors relevant to the lending portfolios. f) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment, if any. Cost includes financing cost relating to borrowed funds attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying tangible assets upto the date
the assets are ready for use. Depreciation is provided on straight-line basis for property, plant and equipment so as to expense the depreciable amount, i.e. the cost less
estimated residual value, over its estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and the effect of any
changes in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis. When an asset is scrapped or otherwise disposed off, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the books of account and
resultant profit or loss, if any, is reflected in profit or loss. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies (contd.) The management’s estimate of useful lives are in accordance with Schedule II to the Companies Act, , other than the following asset classes,
based on the Group’s expected usage pattern supported by technical assessment: g) Asset Class Useful lives (i) Plant and equipment - years (ii) Buildings, including roads - years (iii) Vehicles - years Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is initially recognised as the excess of consideration paid and acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable net assets of
acquired business. Subsequent to initial measurement, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment, if any. Goodwill is allocated to
the cash-generating unit which is expected to benefit from the business combination. Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost except those acquired in a business combination. Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis so as to reflect the pattern in
which the asset’s economic benefits are consumed. Intangible assets under development The Group expenses costs incurred during research phase to profit or loss in the year in which they are incurred. Development phase expenses
are initially recognised as intangible assets under development until the development phase is complete, upon which the amount is capitalised as
intangible asset. Intangible assets acquired under business combination Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value on the
acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost). Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. Other intangible assets Technical Knowhow The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit, commencing with the year of purchase of the technology. Development Expenditure The expenditure incurred on technical services and other project/product related expenses are amortised over the estimated period of benefit, not
exceeding months. Brand license fee The expenditure incurred is amortised over the period of relevant licence fee or the estimated period of benefit, whichever is lower.
Software Expenditure The expenditure incurred is amortised over months commencing from the year in which the expenditure is incurred. Others The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit. The amortisation period for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed annually and changes in expected useful lives are treated as
changes in estimates.
h) Impairment of Assets At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the
value in use or fair value less cost to sell, of the asset or cash-generating unit, as the case may be, is estimated and impairment loss (if any) is
recognised and the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate
of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) earlier. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and
whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
i) Inventories Inventories comprise cost of purchase, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Raw materials and bought out components are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the basis of the weighted
average method. Finished goods produced, stock in trade, manufactured components and work-in-progress are carried at cost or net realisable value whichever
is lower. Stores, spares and tools other than obsolete and slow moving items are carried at cost. Obsolete and slow moving items are valued at cost or
estimated net realisable value, whichever is lower.
j) Foreign exchange transactions and translation The functional currency of the Company and its Indian subsidiaries is Indian Rupees whereas the functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates. Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are measured at the rates prevailing at the date when the
fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange
differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions
entered into in order to hedge certain foreign currency risks (refer policy on Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting). For the purposes of presenting these consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated
into Indian Rupees using exchange rates prevailing at the end of each reporting period. Income and expense items are translated at the average
exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (and attributed
to non-controlling interests as appropriate). On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of control over
a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement or an associate that includes a foreign
operation of which the retained interest becomes a financial asset), the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation
attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss. In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation that does not result in the Group losing control over
the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in
profit or loss. For all other partial disposal (i.e. partial disposals of associates or joint arrangements that do not result in the Group losing significant
influence or joint control), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.
k) Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue
of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or
deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable
to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss. A trade
receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price.
Classification and subsequent measurement Financial assets All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are
purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their respective classification. On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at - — Amortised cost; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - debt investment; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - equity investment; or — Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) The classification of debt instrument as amortised cost or FVTOCI is based on the business model and cash flow characteristics of such instrument. Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition, except if the Group changes its business model for managing financial
assets. All financial asset not classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets unless
designated as effective hedge instruments which are accounted as per hedge accounting requirements discussed below. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies (contd.) Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured at amortised cost using effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced
by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain and loss on
derecognition is recognised in profit or loss. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees paid or received that form an
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument,
or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. Debt investment at FVTOCI are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income under effective interest method, foreign exchange gains
and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Other net gains and losses are recognised in OCI. On derecognition, gains and losses
accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss. For equity investments, the Group makes an election on an instrument-by-instrument basis to designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI.
These elected investments are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive
income and accumulated in the reserves. The cumulative gain or loss is not reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the investments. These equity
investments are not held for trading. Dividend income received on such equity investments are recognised in profit or loss. Equity investments that are not designated as measured at Cost or FVTOCI are designated as measured at FVTPL and subsequent changes in fair
value are recognised in profit or loss. Financial liabilities and equity instruments Debt and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the
contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity
instruments issued by the Group is recognised at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as held-fortrading or it is a derivative (that does not meet hedge accounting requirements) or it is designated as such on initial recognition. Other financial
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses
are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss. Compound instruments An issued financial instrument that comprises of both the liability and equity components are accounted as compound financial instruments. The
fair value of the liability component is separated from the compound instrument and the residual value is recognised as equity component of other
financial instrument. The liability component is subsequently measured at amortised cost, whereas the equity component is not remeasured after
initial recognition. The transaction costs related to compound instruments are allocated to the liability and equity components in the proportion
to the allocation of gross proceeds. Transaction costs related to equity component is recognised directly in equity and the cost related to liability
component is included in the carrying amount of the liability component and amortised using effective interest method.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the rights
to receive the contractual cash flows from financial asset in a manner that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are
transferred to another party. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to
control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for the amount it may have to pay. If the Group enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognised on its balance sheet, but retains either all or substantially all of
the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are not derecognised and the proceeds received are recognised as a
collateralised borrowing.
Offsetting Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group currently has
a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously. Financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because
a specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments issued by the Group are initially measured at their fair values and, if not designated as at
FVTPL, are subsequently measured at the higher of: • the amount of loss allowance determined in accordance with impairment requirements of Ind AS ; and •	the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of
Ind AS . COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure
to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts that are not financial assets within the scope of
Ind AS are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and economic characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the
end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective
as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the
nature of the hedged item. The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or cash
flow hedges. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with
its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an
ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Changes in fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in profit or loss immediately, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other
comprehensive income and accumulated under hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the
consolidated statement of profit and loss. Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (relating to effective portion as described above) are
reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer
expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets The Group applies the expected credit loss (ECL) model for recognising impairment loss on financial assets. With respect to trade receivables, the
Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises
lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. If, on the other hand, the credit risk on the financial
instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount
equal to month ECL. The assessment of whether lifetime ECL should be recognised is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of
a default occurring since initial recognition. month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on
a financial instrument that are possible within months after the reporting date. Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets. For debt securities at
FVTOCI, the loss allowance is recognised in OCI. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash
flows to repay the amounts subject to the write- off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities
under the Group’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
l) Revenue Recognition
Sale of Goods or Services The Group recognises revenue from sale of goods or services at the amount of transaction price (excluding variable consideration that is
constrained), that is allocated to the performance obligation satisfied. Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Group
expects it to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. An
amount of consideration can vary because of discounts, rebates, incentives etc. which are explicitly stated in the contract or are as per customary
business practices. The consideration can also vary where the entitlement is contingent on occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event.
The Group includes variable consideration as part of transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in
the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently
resolved. Variable consideration is estimated using the expected value method or the most likely amount depending on which method the
Group expects to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled and is applied consistently throughout the contract.
Payment terms agreed with a customer are as per business practice and the financing component, if significant, is separated from the transaction
price and accounted as interest income. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies (contd.) Dividend and interest income Dividend from investments are recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income
can be measured reliably.
Income from financing business Interest income is recognised in Consolidated Statement of profit and loss using the effective interest method for all financial instruments measured
at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVTOCI and debt instruments designated at FVTPL. If expectations regarding the cash flows on the financial asset are revised for reasons other than credit risk, the adjustment is recorded as a positive
or negative adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet with an increase or reduction in interest income. The adjustment
is subsequently amortised through interest income in the Consolidated Statement of profit and loss. When a financial asset becomes credit-impaired, the Group calculates interest income by applying the effective interest rate to the net amortised
cost of the financial asset. If the financial assets cures and is no longer credit-impaired, the Group reverts to calculating interest income on a
gross basis. Additional interest and interest on trade advances, are recognised when they become measurable and when it is not unreasonable to expect their
ultimate collection. Income from bill discounting is recognised over the tenure of the instrument so as to provide a constant periodic rate of return. Fee and commission income Fee based income are recognised when they become measurable and when it is probable to expect their ultimate collection. Commission and brokerage income earned for the services rendered are recognised as and when they are due. Long term construction contracts and property development activity Some of the Group companies are in the business to develop and sell residential and commercial properties. Revenue from such contracts is
recognised when control over the property has been transferred to the customer. An enforceable right to payment does not arise until the
development of the property is completed. Therefore, revenue is recognised at a point in time when the legal title has passed to the customer and
the development of the property is completed. The revenue is measured at the transaction price agreed under the contract. For certain contracts involving the sale of property under development, deferred payment schemes are offered to the customers. The transaction
price is adjusted for the effects of the significant financing component. Income from Sale of land and other rights Revenue from sale of land and other rights are considered upon transfer of all significant risks and rewards of ownership of such real estate/
property as per the terms of the contract entered into with the buyers, which are generally with the firmity of the sale contracts/agreements. Income from Project Management Project management fees receivable on fixed period contracts is accounted over the tenure of the contract/agreement. Where the fee is linked to
the input costs, revenue is recognised as a proportion of the work completed based on progress claims submitted. Where the management fee is
linked to the revenue generation from the project, revenue is recognised on the percentage of completion basis. Land Lease Premium Land lease premium is recognised as income upon creation of leasehold rights in favour of the lessee or upon an agreement to create leasehold
rights with handing over of possession. Property lease rentals, income from operation & maintenance charges and water charges are recognised on
an accrual basis as per terms of the agreement with the lessees. Vacation ownership Under the vacation ownership, holiday facilities are provided to members for a specified period each year, over a number of years, for which
membership fee is collected either in full upfront, or on a deferred payment basis. Revenue from sale of vacation ownership weeks is recognised when related right to use the specific property over the specific week(s) is transferred
to the buyer for a consideration. Income from sale of vacation ownership weeks in villas is recognised when the outcome of a villa project can be estimated reliably. Project revenue
and contract costs associated with the contract are recognised as revenue and expenses respectively by reference to the percentage of completion
of the project activity at the reporting date. When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense in profit or loss in
the period in which such probability occurs. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Significant Accounting Policies (contd.) Revenue from Membership fees Revenue from membership fees are recognised over the tenure of membership as the performance obligation is fulfilled. The revenue which will be
recognised in future periods are disclosed under Contract Liability. Non refundable admission fee is recognised as income on admission of a member. Entitlement fee, which entitles the members the vacation ownership facilities over the agreed membership period, are recognised as income equally
over the tenure of membership, commencing from the year of admission and disclosed under Contract Liability. Revenue from Annual subscription fees Annual subscription fee dues from members are recognised as income on accrual basis and fees pertaining to the period beyond the year end is
disclosed under Contract Liability. Interest income on deferred payment plans In case of deferred payment plans wherein significant financing components exists in a contract, interest income or expense is recognised over the
financing period using the Effective Interest Method.
m) Government Grants The Group, directly or indirectly through a consortium of group companies, is entitled to various incentives from government authorities in respect of
manufacturing units located in developing regions. The Group accounts for its entitlement as income on accrual basis. Government grants that are revenue in nature, are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises
as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. The benefit of a government loan at a below market-rate of interest is treated as government grant and is measured as the difference between
proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on prevailing market interest rates at the inception of the loan.
n) Employee Benefits
Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund The Group’s contribution paid /payable during the year to Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund are recognised in profit or loss. Provident Fund Contributions to Provident Fund are made to Trusts administered by the Group/Regional Provident Fund Commissioners and are charged to profit
or loss as incurred. The Group is liable for the contribution and any shortfall in interest between the amount of interest realised by the investments
and the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India in respect of the Trust administered by the Group companies. Long term Compensated Absences The liability towards long term compensated absences are determined by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes The liability towards gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes are determined by independent
actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. Past services are recognised at the earlier of the plan amendment/curtailment and the recognition
of related restructuring costs /termination benefits. The obligation on long term compensated absences and other defined benefit plan are measured at the present value of estimated future cash
flows using a discount rate that is determined by reference to the market yields at the balance sheet date on government bonds (high quality
corporate bonds in case of foreign companies) where the currency and terms of the government bonds are consistent with the currency and
estimated terms of the defined benefit obligation. Remeasurement gains/losses Remeasurement of defined benefit plans, comprising of actuarial gains or losses, return on plan assets excluding interest income are recognised
immediately in balance sheet with corresponding debit or credit to other comprehensive income. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or
loss in subsequent period. Remeasurement gains or losses on long term compensated absences that are classified as other long term benefits are recognised in profit or loss. Share based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the
Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. Share appreciation rights which are cash settled share-based payments are recognised as employee benefit expense over the relevant service
period. The liabilities are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
o) Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take
a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Interest income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit
or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
p) Income taxes Current tax Current tax is determined as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable income for the year. The Group’s current tax is calculated using tax
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying values of assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the
manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets including that on unused tax losses and unused tax credits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
income will be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for: —	the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit, —	the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, —	Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws that is not likely to give future economic benefits in the form of adjustment
to future income tax liability, and —	temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements to the extent that the Group is able to control
the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Current and deferred tax for the year Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or
directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the
business combination.
q) Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision
is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks
and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying
amount is the present value of these cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material). Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations are recognised at the time of sale of the relevant products, at the best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation. Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date. At the end of the subsequent
reporting periods, such contingent liabilities are measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognised in accordance with Ind AS Provisions, Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance
with Ind AS - Revenue from contracts with customers.
r) Leases At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys
the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the
right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses whether: ­	­—	the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly or implicitly, and should be physically distinct or
represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the lessor has a substantive substitution right, then the asset
is not identified ­	­—	the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use; and COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Significant Accounting Policies (contd.) ­	­—	the Group as a lessee has the right to direct the use of the asset. The Group has this right when it has the decision-making rights that
are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose the asset is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and for what
purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset if either: o the Group as a lessee has the right to operate the asset; or o the Group as a lessee designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used The Group as a lessee The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost,
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any
initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site
on which it is located, less any lease incentives received. The right-of-use assets are subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the
useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if
any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date,
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, using the incremental borrowing rate. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Group’s
estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise
a purchase, extension or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is
recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of months or less
and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
The Group as lessor When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or an operating lease.
Whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance
lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases. When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sublease separately. The sublease is classified as a
finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight- line basis over the lease term as part of ‘other
income’
s) Business combinations The Group accounts for its business combinations under acquisition method of accounting. The acquiree’s identifiable assets including liabilities
and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the sum
of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held
equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed
is recognised as goodwill. Before recognising capital reserve in respect thereof, the Group determines whether there exists clear evidence of underlying reasons for classifying
the business combination as a bargain purchase. Thereafter, the Group reassesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and
all of the liabilities assumed and recognises any additional asset or liabilities that are identified in that reassessment. The Group then reviews the
procedures used to measure the amounts that Ind AS requires for the purposes of calculating the bargain purchase. If the gain remains after this
reassessment and review, the Group recognises it directly in equity as capital reserve. Non-controlling interest is initially measured at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of
measurement basis is made on an acquisition by acquisition basis. Subsequent to initial acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interest
is the amount of those interest in initial recognition plus the non-controlling interest’s share of subsequent changes in equity of subsidiaries. When the consideration transferred by the Group in business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting in a contingent consideration
arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition date fair value and included as a part of the consideration transferred in
a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments, are adjusted
retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill or capital reserve as the case may be. When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to its acquisition-date
fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition
date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be
appropriate if that interest were disposed off. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant Accounting Policies (contd.) If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group
reports provisional amount for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amount are adjusted during the measurement
period (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information
obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amount recognised at that date. In consolidated financial statements, acquisition of non-controlling interest is accounted as equity transaction. The carrying amount of the Group’s
interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between
the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in
equity and attributed to owners of the Company. Business Combination under common control are accounted as per Appendix C in Ind AS - Business combinations, at carrying amount of assets
and liabilities acquired and any excess of consideration issued over the net assets acquired is recognised as capital reserve on common control
business combination.
t) Acquisition of interest in associate and joint ventures Acquisition of interest in an associate or a joint venture, is initially recognised at cost. Any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s
share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is regarded as goodwill, which is included in the carrying amount of
the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of the investment, after
reassessment, is recognised in equity as capital reserve in the period in which the investment is acquired.
u) Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. To classify as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, its sale must be highly probable and is marketed
for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. The Group must also be committed to the sale, which should be expected
to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. v) Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Hyperinflationary economies During the year, the Turkish economy has been designated as hyperinflationary. Accordingly, financial statements of entities whose functional
currency is Turkish Lira have been prepared applying IND AS ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’. This primarily includes (i)
restatement of non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in the balance sheet and all items of income and expenses in the
statement of profit and loss, using the general price index at the balance sheet date, and (ii) recording gain or loss on net monetary position.
. Recent accounting pronouncements Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules as issued from time to time. On 31st March, , MCA amended the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, by issuing the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, , applicable from 1st April, , as below:
a) Ind AS - Presentation of Financial Statements The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting policies rather than their significant accounting policies. Accounting policy
information, together with other information included in an entity’s financial statements, is material when it can reasonably be expected to influence
decisions of primary users of general purpose financial statements. The Group does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in
its financial statements.
b) Ind AS - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors The amendments will help entities to distinguish between accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition of a change in accounting
estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in
financial statements that are subject to measurement uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in
financial statements to be measured in a way that involves measurement uncertainty. The Group does not expect this amendment to have any
significant impact in its financial statements.
c) Ind AS - Income Taxes The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and decommissioning obligations. The amendments
narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs and of Ind AS (recognition exemption) so that it no longer applies to
transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary differences. The Group does not expect this amendment
to have any significant impact in its financial statements. . ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,. . — (.) (.) . . . . — (.) (.) . ,. ,. ,. . . (,.) (.) . ,. ,. ,. . (.) (.) (.) ,. ,. . . . . . (.) (.) . . . . . (.) (.) (.) . . . . (.) (.) . . . . . . (.) (.) (.) . . . . (.) (.) . . . ,. . (.) (.) (.) . . . . (.) (.) . — . . . — — — — — . . . — — — — . . . — — — — — — . . — — — — . . . — . (.) (.) . . . . . — (.) (.) . . . — (.) (.) . . . . . — (.) (.) . . . Office
Equipments ,. ,. ,. . . (,.) (.) . ,. ,. ,. . (.) (.) (.) ,. ,. ,. . (,.) (.) . . ,. ,. ,. (.) (.) (.) . ,. ,. Total Rupees crores * Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.
# Out of impairment losses recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, Rs. . crores and Rs. . crores has been recognised in exceptional items and depreciation and
amortisation expense, respectively. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ..................... Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ......................... NET CARRYING AMOUNT................................................................ Balance as at 31st March, ................................................... — — — — . . . . — — (.) . . . ,. . (,.) (.) . . . . . (.) (.) (.) . . . Aircraft STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................ Impairment losses recognised *..................................................... Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................... Disposals................................................................................................... (.) . ,. .
— ,. . (.) (.) (.) . . (.) — (.) . ,. . . (.) (.) . . ,. ,. ,. (.) (.) (.) . . . Vehicles BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Foreign exchange translation differences.................................. Depreciation expense for the year ............................................. Balance as at 1st April, ........................................................ Balance as at 31st March, ................................................ Impairment losses recognised #.................................................... Disposal of subsidiaries...................................................................... Disposals................................................................................................... Foreign exchange translation differences.................................. — . Balance as at 1st April, ....................................................... ,. . (.) (.) . — . . . — (.) . . ,. . Furniture and
Fixtures CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE Depreciation expense for the year ............................................. ,. . (.) Balance as at 31st March, ................................................
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................ Disposal of subsidiaries...................................................................... (.) (.) . . .
. ,. ,. (.) (.) ,. ,. (.) (.) (.) — . ,. Plant and
Equipment MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Disposals................................................................................................... Foreign exchange translation differences.................................. Additions through business combinations................................. Balance as at 1st April, ......................................................
Additions /Transfer from capital work-in-progress during
the year.................................................................................................... Balance as at 31st March, ................................................ Disposal of subsidiaries...................................................................... Disposals................................................................................................... (.) — . . . . Buildings Leasehold BOARD’S
REPORT Foreign exchange translation differences.................................. Additions through business combinations................................. ,. Buildings ,. Land COMPANY
OVERVIEW Balance as at 1st April, ......................................................
Additions/Transfer from capital work-in-progress during
the year.................................................................................................... COST Particulars Property, Plant and Equipment
a) Owned assets CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Property, Plant and Equipment (contd.)
b) Right-of-use assets Rupees crores
Land Buildings Plant and
Equipment Furniture
and
Fixtures Vehicles Office
Equipments Total Balance as at 1st April, . ,. . . . . ,. Additions............................................................................................... . . . — . . . Acquisitions through business combinations.............. — . — — — — . Foreign exchange translation differences..................... . (.) (.) — (.) . (.) Deductions.......................................................................................... — (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries.............................................................. — — (.) — — — (.) Balance as at March, ..................................... . ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ............................................ . ,. . . . . ,. Additions............................................................................................... . . . — . . ,. Acquisitions through business combinations.............. — . . — . — . Foreign exchange translation differences..................... . . . — (.) . . Deductions.......................................................................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries.............................................................. (.) (.) (.) — (.) — (.) Balance as at 31st March, ..................................... . ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ............................................ . . . . . . . Depreciation expense for the year ................................. . . . . . . . Foreign exchange translation differences..................... . (.) (.) — (.) . (.) Deductions.......................................................................................... — (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries.............................................................. — — (.) — — — (.) Impairment losses recognised *........................................... — — . — — — . Balance as at 31st March, ..................................... . ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ............................................ . ,. . . . . ,. Depreciation expense for the year ................................. . . . . . . . Foreign exchange translation differences..................... . . . — (.) . . Deductions.......................................................................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries.............................................................. (.) (.) (.) — (.) — (.) Impairment losses recognised *........................................... — — — — . — . Balance as at March, ..................................... . ,. . . . . ,. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ........... . ,. . . . . ,. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ..... . ,. . . . . ,. Particulars COST st ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND
IMPAIRMENT st NET CARRYING AMOUNT * Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items. COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Property, Plant and Equipment (contd.)
Break-up of net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars . a) Owned Assets ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. b) Right-of-use assets................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Capital Work-in-Progress
Rupees crores
Particulars Balance at the beginning of the year.................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Additions during the year (including interest capitalised)........................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Business combinations (net).......................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Transfer to property, plant and equipment........................................................................................................................................................................ (,.) (,.) Foreign exchange translation differences............................................................................................................................................................................ . (.) Hyperinflation adjustment.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . — Impairment losses recognised *.................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Balance at the end of the year ........................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. * Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.
Ageing of capital work-in-progress
Rupees crores
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Particulars Less than year - years - years More than years Total Projects in progress ................................................................................................................................... . . . . ,. Total ..................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . ,. Projects in progress ................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Total ..................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . ,. As at 31st March, : As at 31st March, : MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Goodwill
Rupees crores
Particulars Balance at the beginning of the year.................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Additions through business combinations........................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Disposal of subsidiaries..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) — Impairment during the year (Refer Note )................................................................................................................................................................... (.) — Foreign exchange translation difference.............................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Balance at the end of the year............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Segment wise allocation of goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to segments as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Automotive................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Farm equipment..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Financial services.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Real estate................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Hospitality.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Others............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. The Group tests goodwill on an annual basis and whenever there is an indication that the CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated may be impaired.
The goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of the CGU or group of CGUs that benefit from the synergies of the acquisition and which
represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount is determined based on higher
of value‐in‐use and fair value less cost of disposal. Where there is no basis for making a reliable estimate of the price at which an orderly transaction
to sell the asset would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions, the recoverable amount
is determined by value-in-use. In determining the value-in-use, cash flow projections approved by appropriate level of management are considered. In
circumstances where a reliable value-in-use estimate is difficult to make whereas market value of the asset or the CGU or group of CGUs is readily
available, the latter is used for the determination of recoverable amount with appropriate adjustments, where applicable. Apart from the observable market information, significant management estimates and judgments are used to determine the recoverable amounts based
on value-in-use. Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of recoverable amount includes estimated growth rates (including
terminal growth rates), margins and discount rates. Cash flow projections are usually considered for next - years and represent management’s best
estimate about future developments with due consideration for past performance. Cash flows beyond the five‐year period are extrapolated using
terminal growth rates. In certain cases, the performance of the cash generating units were below their expected levels. Accordingly, the Group assessed such cash generating
units for the recoverable amounts based on fair value less cost of disposal and value-in-use estimates. The goodwill impairment had been recognised as
‘Exceptional item’ in the consolidated statement of profit and loss and is attributable to the following operating segments:
(a) ‘Farm Equipment’ segment - Rs. . crores (: Nil). This relates to goodwill allocated to an international subsidiary.
(b) ‘Financial services’ segment - Rs. . crores (: Nil). This relates to goodwill allocated to an international subsidiary. . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Other Intangible Assets Rupees crores Particulars Development
Expenditure Computer
Software Brand License
& Trademarks Others Total Balance as at 1st April, ..................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Additions/Transfer from intangibles assets under development
during the year........................................................................................................ ,. . — . ,. COST Acquisitions through business combinations....................................... — . — — . Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. . (.) (.) (.) (.) Deductions................................................................................................................... (,.) (.) — (.) (,.) Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Balance as at March, .............................................................. ,. . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ..................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Additions/Transfer from intangibles assets under development
during the year......................................................................................................... ,. . — . ,. Acquisitions through business combinations....................................... . . . . . Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. . . . . . Deductions................................................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................ . . — . . Balance as at March, .............................................................. ,. . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ..................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Amortisation expense for the year .......................................................... . . . . . Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. . (.) (.) (.) (.) Deductions................................................................................................................... (,.) (.) — (.) (,.) st st ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Impairment losses recognised #................................................................... . . — — . Balance as at 31st March, .............................................................. ,. . . . ,. Balance as at April, ,. . . . ,. Amortisation expense for the year .......................................................... ,. . . . ,. st Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. . . . . . Deductions................................................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Impairment losses recognised *.................................................................... . . — — . Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................ — . — . . Balance as at 31st March, .............................................................. ,. . . . ,. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, .................................... ,. . . . ,. Net carrying amount as at March, ............................. ,. . . . ,. NET CARRYING AMOUNT
st * Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.
# Out of impairment losses recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, Rs. . crores and Rs. . crores has been recognised in
exceptional items and depreciation and amortisation expense, respectively.
Note:
Others include technical knowhow, customer relationships, etc. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Intangible assets under development
Rupees crores
Particulars Balance at the beginning of the year.................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Additions during the year (including interest capitalised)........................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Business combinations (net).......................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) — Transfer to intangible assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................ (,.) (,.) Foreign exchange translation differences............................................................................................................................................................................ . . Impairment losses recognised *.................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Balance at the end of the year ........................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. * Out of impairment losses recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) and Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores) has been recognised in exceptional items and depreciation and amortisation expense, respectively.
Ageing of intangible assets under development
Rupees crores
Amount in Intangibles assets under development for a period of
Particulars
As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress...................................................................................................................................... . Less than year - years - years More than years Total ,. . . . ,. Total........................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress...................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . ,. ,. . . . ,. Total........................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . . . ,. Investments
A. Non-Current Investments
a) Measured as per equity accounting method Particulars Rupees crores Quoted
Investments in Equity Instruments
— of Associates*.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Unquoted
Investments in Equity Instruments
— of Associates*..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
— of Joint ventures*........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,.
,. ,.
,. Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Investments measured as per equity accounting method.......................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. * Refer note . COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Investments (contd.) b) Measured as per other than equity accounting method Particulars Rupees crores Amortised Cost Quoted
Investments in non-convertible
.
debentures/bonds .....................................................
Investments in government securities......... ,.
—
Investments in equity instruments $............
,.
Unquoted
Investments in Preference Shares
.
— of Joint ventures *................................................
—
— of Other entities....................................................
Investments in Debentures/Bonds
—
— of Joint ventures *................................................
.
— of Other entities....................................................
Investments in Alternate Investment
Fund......................................................................................
—
—
Investments in Equity Instruments.................
.
Total.................................................................................... ,. FVTOCI FVTPL Total .
,.
—
,. .
,.
.
,. .
,.
.
,. —
—
.
. —
—
.
. .
,.
.
,. .
,.
.
,. —
. —
— —
— .
— .
— .
— .
. —
. —
. —
— .
— .
— .
. .
. —
—
.
,. —
.
.
,. —
.
.
,. .
.
.
. .
.
.
. .
.
.
,. .
.
.
,.
Rupees crores Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross)..................................................................................................................................... Other Disclosures: ,. ,. Market Value of quoted Investments..................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross).............................................................................................................................. ,. ,. * Refer note .
$ Investments in equity instruments measured at FVTPL includes investment in SsangYong Motor Company renamed as “KG Mobility”, which resumed
trading on a stock exchange outside India post 31st March, .
B. Current Investments Particulars Rupees crores
Amortised Cost FVTOCI FVTPL Total Investments in Debentures /Bonds........................... — — . . . — . . Investments in Equity Instruments............................ — — * * — — * * Investments in Government Securities................... . . . . — — . . Investments in Mutual Funds........................................ — — — — ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . ,. ,. ,. ,. Quoted Unquoted
Investments in Certificate of Deposits.................... . . ,. . ,. — ,. ,. Investments in Corporate Fixed Deposits................. . . — — — — . . Investments in Commercial paper.............................. — — . — . — . — . . ,. . ,. — ,. ,. . . ,. ,. ,. ,. Total................................................................................................
* denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - . Investments (contd.)
Rupees crores
Other disclosures: Aggregate amount of quoted investments.................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Market value of quoted investments................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Aggregate amount of unquoted investments............................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Trade Receivables Rupees crores Particulars Non Current Current Secured, considered good.............................................................................................................................. . . . . Unsecured, considered good........................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. Credit impaired...................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . ,. ,. Less: Loss allowance......................................................................................................................................... . . . . Total............................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. Refer Note for disclosures related to credit risk, impairment of trade receivables under expected credit loss model and related disclosures.
Ageing of trade receivables Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due Less than months months year - years - years More than years Total Undisputed trade receivables — considered good.................. ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables — credit impaired ................... . . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables — considered good ..................... — . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables — credit impaired ......................... . . . . . . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Less: Loss allowance .................................................................................... (.) Total Trade Receivables .................................................................... ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Trade Receivables (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due . Less than months months year - years - years More than years Total Undisputed trade receivables — considered good.................. ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables — credit impaired ................... . . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables — considered good ..................... — . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables — credit impaired.......................... — . . . . . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Less: Loss allowance ................................................................................ (.) Total Trade Receivables .................................................................... ,. Loans
Particulars a) — Credit impaired.................................................................................................................................... c) Non Current Current . . . . Loans to related parties
— Unsecured, considered good...................................................................................................... b) Rupees crores . . — — . . . . Less: Loss allowance ......................................................................................................................... . . — — Total (a) ...................................................................................................................................................... . . . . — Secured, considered good............................................................................................................ — — . . — Unsecured, considered good...................................................................................................... . . . . — Credit impaired.................................................................................................................................... . . . . Other Loans . . . . Less: Loss allowance ........................................................................................................................... . . . . Total (b) ...................................................................................................................................................... . . . . — Secured, considered good............................................................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. — Unsecured, considered good...................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. — Significant increase in credit risk........................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. — Credit impaired.................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Financial Services receivable # ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Loss allowance............................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Total (c) ...................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Total (a)+(b)+(c)...................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. # Refer Note for disclosures related to credit risk, impairment of financial services receivables under expected credit loss model and related
disclosures. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Other Financial Assets
Rupees crores
Particulars Non Current Current ,. . — — Financial assets at amortised cost
Bank deposits..........................................................................................................................................................
Balances with banks on margin accounts.......................................................................................... . . — — Security deposit .................................................................................................................................................. . . . . Interest accrued on investment, other loans................................................................................... . — . . Government grant receivable...................................................................................................................... ,. . . . Corporate Fixed Deposit.................................................................................................................................. — . — — Others........................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . Financial Assets at Fair value
Foreign currency forwards and options, Interest rate swaps & commodity
derivatives ............................................................................................................................................................. — . . . Derivatives on interest over Subsidiaries and joint ventures............................................... . . — . Total.............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. . Current Tax and Deferred Tax
a) Income Tax recognised in profit or loss
Rupees crores
Particulars In respect of current year.................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. In respect of prior years........................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) . Unrecognised tax losses of previous year used to reduce current tax expense ....................................................................... (.) (.) Total Current Tax ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. In respect of current year origination and reversal of temporary differences............................................................................... (.) . Effect of utilisation/(recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses....................................................................................................... (.) . Write down/reversal of Deferred tax assets............................................................................................................................................................ — . In respect of prior years........................................................................................................................................................................................................ . (.) Total Deferred Tax ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) . Total Income Tax expense............................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Current Tax Deferred Tax COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
b) Income tax recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Particulars Rupees crores Effective portion of gains / (losses) on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge............... (.) (.) Net change in fair value of investments in debt instruments at FVTOCI.......................................................................................... . . Net change in fair value of investments in equity shares at FVTOCI................................................................................................... . (.) Remeasurement of defined benefit plans................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations — Associates................................. (.) (.) Total Deferred Tax.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Net change in fair value of investments in equity shares at FVTOCI................................................................................................... (.) — Total Current Tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) — Total Income Tax expense............................................................................................................................................................................................... . (.) Income taxes related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss.................................................................................. . (.) Income taxes related to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss............................................................................................ . (.) Total..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . (.) Deferred Tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income: Current Tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income: Classification of income tax recognised in other comprehensive income: c) The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at tax rate to income tax expense reported in profit or loss is as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Profit Before Tax.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Applicable Income Tax rate................................................................................................................................................................................................ .% .% Expected Income Tax expense........................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Effect of different tax rates in local and foreign tax jurisdictions........................................................................................................ (.) (.) Effect of income exempt from tax/non-taxable on compliance of conditions............................................................................. (.) (.) Effect of income chargable at specified tax rates .......................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Effect of expenses/provisions that is non-deductible in determining taxable profit................................................................ . . Unrecognised tax losses of previous year used to reduce current tax expense........................................................................ (.) (.) Effect of unused tax losses & tax offsets for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised................................ . . Effect of (recognition)/utilisation of deferred tax on capital losses (net)........................................................................................ (.) . Write down/reversal of Deferred tax assets.......................................................................................................................................................... — . Effect of net additional /(reversal) of provision in respect of prior years ..................................................................................... (.) . Others................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) Income tax expense recognised in consolidated statement of profit and loss.................................................................... ,. ,. Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported income tax expense: MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
d) Amounts on which deferred tax asset has not been created and related expiry period Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available
against which the Group can use the benefit therefrom.
Rupees crores
Particulars e) Deductible Temporary differences (no expiry date)......................................................................................................................................... . . Unused tax losses (revenue in nature)...................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Unused tax losses (capital in nature)......................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Unused tax credits................................................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Unused Tax losses — Revenue in nature
Particulars Rupees crores Up to Five Years......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . More than Five Years.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . No Expiry Date............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Expiry period f) Unused Tax losses — Capital in nature
Particulars Rupees crores Up to five years.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . More than Five Years.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. — Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Expiry period g) Unused tax credits
Particulars Rupees crores More than five years............................................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Expiry period COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
h)	Aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for which deferred
tax liability has not been recognised:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Undistributed earnings.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Movement in deferred tax balances
Year ended 31st March, Particulars Rupees crores
Foreign
Opening Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised
exchange
in OCI
in Equity in Business
Balance in Profit or
combination/ translation
Loss
Disposal of differences
subsidiaries Closing
Balance Tax effect of items resulting in taxable
temporary differences
Fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets................................................................... ,. (.) — — (.) (.) ,. Undistributed profit of associate......................................... . . . (.) — — . Others..................................................................................................... . (.) . — . (.) . ,. . . (.) (.) (.) ,. Provision for employee benefits.......................................... . . . — (.) . . Allowances for expected credit loss................................ ,. (.) . — (.) . . Carried forward tax losses...................................................... . . — — (.) . . MAT credit ........................................................................................... . . — — (.) — . Unrealised gain on inter-company transactions
(net).......................................................................................................... . . — — (.) — . Others..................................................................................................... . . . — (.) (.) . ,. . . — (.) . ,. (.) . . . (.) . . Tax effect of items resulting in deductible
temporary differences Net Deferred Tax Asset/(Liabilities)................................... MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
Year ended 31st March, Rupees crores
Foreign
Opening Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised
exchange
in OCI
in Equity in Business
Balance in Profit or
combination/ translation
Loss
Disposal of differences
subsidiaries Closing
Balance Fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets................................................................ ,. . — — (.) (.) ,. Undistributed profit of associates................................... . . . — — — . Particulars Tax effect of items resulting in taxable
temporary differences Others.................................................................................................. . . . — — . . ,. . . — (.) (.) ,. Provision for employee benefits....................................... . (.) (.) — — (.) . Allowances for expected credit loss............................. ,. . — — — . ,. Tax effect of items resulting in deductible
temporary differences Carry forward tax losses....................................................... . . — — — (.) . MAT credit . . — — — — . Unrealised gain on inter-company transactions
(net)...................................................................................................... . (.) — — — — . Others.................................................................................................. . . (.) — — (.) . ,. . (.) — — (.) ,. . (.) (.) — . . (.) Net Deferred Tax Asset/(Liabilities)................................ Balances of Deferred Tax Assets /Deferred Tax Liabilities are presented in Balance sheet as below: Rupees crores Particulars Deferred Tax Assets (net)................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Deferred Tax Liabilities (net)........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Net Deferred Tax Asset/(Liabilities) ......................................................................................................................................................................................... . (.) . Other Assets (Non—Financial)
Particulars Rupees crores
Non Current Current Capital Advances................................................................................................................................................... ,. . — — Balances with government authorities (other than current taxes)................................. . . ,. ,. Contract Assets ................................................................................................................................................... . . . . Deferred Acquisition Cost ............................................................................................................................ . . . . Others ........................................................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Others include advances to suppliers, prepaid expenses. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Other Assets (Non-Financial) (contd.)
Significant changes in Contract assets during the year are as follows:—
Rupees crores
Particulars Reclassification of opening balances of contract assets to trade receivables........................................................................................... . . Adjustments due to contract modification........................................................................................................................................................................... . . In addition to the contract balances disclosed above, the group has also recognised a deferred acquisition cost in relation to some of the long—term
contracts.
Rupees crores
Particulars Assets recognised from cost incurred to fulfil a contract ...................................................................................................................................... . . Amortisation expenses recognised as cost of providing services during the year ............................................................................... . . . Inventories
Particulars Rupees crores Raw materials and bought—out components
[includes in-transit Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores)].................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Work-in-progress-property development activity and long term contracts.................................................................................................. ,. ,. Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Stock-in-trade [includes in-transit Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores)]............................................................................................... ,. ,. Manufactured components............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Stores and spares ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Loose tools.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Food, beverages, smokes and operating supplies............................................................................................................................................................. . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (a) The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year was Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores) (b)	The cost of inventories recognised as an expense include Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) in respect of write-down of inventories to net
realisable value, and has been reduced by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) in respect of the reversal of such write downs.
(c)	Certain companies in the Group have availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit,
which are secured by hypothecation of inventories.
(d) Mode of valuation of inventories is stated in Note (i). MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Cash and Cash Equivalents and Bank Balances
Particulars
a) Rupees crores – On current accounts............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. – On saving accounts................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . – Fixed deposits with original maturity of less than months................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Cheques, drafts on hand......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Cash on hand................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Earmarked balances with banks....................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Balances with banks on margin accounts................................................................................................................................................................. . . Fixed deposits................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Total..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Balances with banks b) . Bank balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents Equity Share Capital
Particulars Rupees crores ,,,, (: ,,,,) Ordinary (equity) Shares of Rs. each......................................................................... ,. ,. ,, (: ,,) Unclassified Shares of Rs. each............................................................................................................. . . ,,, (: ,,,) Preference Shares of Rs. each............................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . ,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up issued to
M&M benefit trust................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up........................................................................................................................................................................ . . Authorised: Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up:
,,,, (: ,,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up....................................................
Less:
,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up issued to M&M ESOP trust
but not yet allotted to employees..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Less: COMPANY
OVERVIEW . BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Equity Share Capital (contd.)
(a) Reconciliation of number of ordinary (equity) shares and amount outstanding: Particulars No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores At the beginning of the year............................................................................................ ,,,, . ,,,, . ,, . — — ,,,, . ,,,, . Shares issued to M&M ESOP Trust but not allotted to Employees............ ,,, . ,,, . Shares issued to M&M Benefit Trust................................................................................ ,,, . ,,, . Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital.......................... ,,,, . ,,,, . Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up:
Add:
Shares issued under scheme of arrangement........................................................... Less: (b) The Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company rank pari-passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend. (c)	Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by shareholders holding more than % of the aggregate shares in the Company’s Issued, Subscribed and
Paid-up:
Name of the Shareholder No.
of Shares %
Shareholding No.
of Shares %
Shareholding Prudential Management & Services Private Limited..................................................... ,,, . ,,, . M&M Benefit Trust................................................................................................................................. ,,, . ,,, . Life Insurance Corporation of India............................................................................................ ,,, . ,,, . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Equity share capital (contd.)
(d) Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by promoters in the Company’s Paid-up Share Capital: Name of the Promotors No.
of Shares %
Shareholding % Change
during the
year No.
of Shares %
Shareholding % Change
during the
year Anand Mahindra..................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Keshub Mahindra.................................................. ,, .% — ,, .% — Sub Total (A).......................................................... ,, .% ,, .% Anjali K Mahindra.................................................. ,, .% .% ,, .% .% Anuradha Mahindra............................................. ,, .% — ,, .% — Dhruv S Sharma.................................................... , .% — , .% — Deveshwar Jagat Sharma............................... , .% — , .% — Gautam P Khandelwal...................................... , .% — , .% — Leena S Labroo...................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Nisheeta Labroo.................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% .% Aneesha Labroo..................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Radhika Nath........................................................... , .% — , .% — Sanjay Labroo......................................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% — Sudha Keshub Mahindra.................................. ,, .% — ,, .% — Uma R Malhotra.................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Yuthica Keshub Mahindra............................... ,, .% .% ,, .% .% Kema Services International Private
Limited.......................................................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — Prudential Management and Services
Private Limited......................................................... ,,, .% — ,,, .% — M&M Benefit Trust.............................................. ,,, .% — ,,, .% — Sub Total (B)......................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Total (A+B)............................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Promoters: Promoter Group: (e) For the period of preceding five years as on the balance sheet date, Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital includes: i)	Aggregate of ,, (: ,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Schemes of Arrangement
without payment having been received in cash. ii)	Aggregate of ,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares allotted as fully paid-up by way of bonus shares. . Details of proposed dividend
Particulars Proposed Dividend per equity share (Rs.) ........................................................................................................................................................................... . . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Borrowings
A. Long Term Borrowings Rupees crores
Particulars ,. ,. ,. ,. Secured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Debentures & Bonds...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Term Loan
(i) From Banks........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (ii) From other parties.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. ,. ,. . ,. Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Debentures & Bonds...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Term Loan
(i) From banks........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (ii) From other parties.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . — Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Loan from related parties....................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. ,. ,. Total....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Other loans primarily comprise of deferred sales tax loans which are interest free and repayable in five equal installments after ten years from the
year of availment of respective loan. The borrowings carry varying rates of interest upto .% p.a. and have maturities starting from and ending with .
B. Short Term Borrowings
Particulars Rupees crores . . – From banks and cash credit account.......................................................................................................................................................................... . . Term loan from banks................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . ,. ,. Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . . . Secured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Loans repayable on demand Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost): Loans repayable on demand
– From Banks and Cash credit account.........................................................................................................................................................................
Loan from related parties....................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Commercial Papers...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Term Loan from Banks.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. Current maturities of long-term debt............................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Total .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Secured borrowings are secured by a pari-passu charge on immovable properties of certain entities in the Group both present and future, subject to
certain exclusions and are also secured by pari-passu charge on the movable properties of certain entities including inventories, movable machinery,
machinery spares, tools and accessories, both present and future, subject to certain exclusions. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Borrowings (contd.) Reconciliation of movement in borrowings and lease liabilities to cash flow from financing activities
Particulars Rupees crores – Long term borrowings........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Non Current lease liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Short term borrowings.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Current lease liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Unclaimed matured deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total Opening Balance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Proceeds from borrowings................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. – Repayment of borrowings................................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) – Net increase in Loans repayable on demand and cash credit ................................................................................................................ . (.) – Repayment of lease liabilities ........................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) ,. (,.) – Addition to lease liabilities during the year ......................................................................................................................................................... ,. . – On account of acquisition /(disposal) of subsidiaries (net) ....................................................................................................................... (,.) . – Forward contract adjustments........................................................................................................................................................................................ — . – Other adjustments................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Effect of amortisation of loan origination costs and foreign exchange translation................................................................. . (.) (,.) . – Long Term Borrowings........................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Non Current lease liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Short Term Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Current lease liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Unclaimed matured Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total Closing Balance............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Opening balance Cash flow movements Non-cash movements Closing Balance . Trade Payables
Particulars Rupees crores
Non Current Current Acceptances............................................................................................................................................................ — — ,. ,. Trade payable — Micro and small enterprises................................................................................ — — . . Trade payable — Other than micro and small enterprises.................................................... . . ,. ,. Total............................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Trade Payables (contd.)
Ageing of trade payables Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due Less than year - years - years More than years Total Trade payable
MSME ..................................................................................... . . . . . . Others ................................................................................... ,. ,. . . . ,. Disputed dues — Others .......................................... — . — . . . ,. ,. . . . ,. Accrued Expenses ........................................................
Net trade payables ................................................... ,.
,. ,. . . . ,.
Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due Less than year - years - years More than years Total MSME ..................................................................................... . . . . . . Others ................................................................................... ,. ,. . . . ,. Disputed dues — MSME ............................................ . — — — . . Trade payable Disputed dues — Others .......................................... . . . . . . ,. ,. . . . ,. Accrued Expenses ........................................................
Net trade payables ...................................................
. ,.
,. ,. . . . Other Financial Liabilities
Particulars ,.
Rupees crores Non Current Current — — . . Carried at Amortised Cost
Unclaimed dividends #.....................................................................................................................................
Unclaimed matured deposits and interest accrued thereon................................................ — — . . Interest accrued................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Others.......................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Foreign currency forwards and options, Interest rate swaps & commodity
derivatives .............................................................................................................................................................. . . . . Derivatives on interest over joint ventures...................................................................................... — — — . Carried at Fair value Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interest . . . — Compulsorily convertible Preference shares *................................................................................ . — — — Total............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. # There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund.
* Refer Note MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Provisions
Rupees crores
Particulars Non Current Current Provision for employee benefits................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . . Provision for warranties................................................................................................................................... . . . . Provision for service coupons...................................................................................................................... . . . . Provision for others............................................................................................................................................. . . . . Total............................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. . Provision for warranty relates to provision made in respect of sale of certain products, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the time of sale.
The products are generally covered under a free warranty period ranging from months to years.
The movement in provision for warranty and service coupon is as follows:
Particulars Rupees crores
Provision for warranty Provision for service coupons Opening Balance................................................................................................................................................... . . . . Additional net provisions recognised during the year............................................................... . . . . Amounts utilised during the year............................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) Unwinding of discount...................................................................................................................................... . . . . Disposal of subsidiaries.................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) — — Foreign exchange translation differences........................................................................................... (.) (.) — — Closing Balance.................................................................................................................................................. ,. . . . . Other Non-Financial Liabilities
Particulars Rupees crores
Non Current Current Statutory dues (other than income taxes)......................................................................................... — — ,. ,. Contract Liabilities................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. Others............................................................................................................................................................................ — — . . Total............................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Contract liabilities represents deferred revenue and advance received from customers.
Significant changes in Contract liabilities during the year are as follows:—
Particulars
Recognition of revenue arising from contract liabilities............................................................................................................................................. Rupees crores ,. ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Revenue from Operations
Revenue from operations comprises of: Rupees crores Particulars
(a) From contract with customers (as defined under Ind AS )
Sale of products..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Sale of services............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Income from long term contracts..................................................................................................................................................................................
Other operating revenue....................................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) From financial services
Interest income of financial services business...................................................................................................................................................... (c) Others
Government grant and incentives..................................................................................................................................................................................
Other operating revenue....................................................................................................................................................................................................... Total (a + b + c)...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,.
,.
.
,.
,,. ,.
,.
.
.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. .
.
,. .
.
. ,,. ,. The Group undertakes periodic revalidations in the estimate of variable consideration on account of various economic factors. The amount of revenue
recognised from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods is aggregating to Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). The following table includes revenue expected to be recognised in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially
unsatisfied) at the reporting date:
Rupees crores
Particulars ,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
,. Time Band
Less than year......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Greater than year but less than years..........................................................................................................................................................................
Greater than years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Group applies the practical expedient of Ind AS and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original
expected duration of one year or less. Revenue disclosed above does not include estimated amount of variable consideration that are constrained.
Reconciliation of revenue recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss with contracted price
Rupees crores
Particulars
Revenue from contract with customer as per the contract price ,,. ,. Adjustments made to contract price
–
Trade discounts, volume rebates, return etc...........................................................................................................................................................
–
Deferrment of revenue..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
–
Recognition of revenue out of opening balance of contract liabilities............................................................................................... (,.)
(.)
,. (,.)
(.)
,. Revenue from contract with customer as per the consolidated statement of profit and loss...................................... ,,. ,. Revenue disaggregation as per nature of products and geography has been included in segment information. (Refer note ).
. Other Income
Particulars
Interest Income
– On financial assets carried at amortised cost................................................................................................................................................................
– On financial assets carried at FVTOCI..................................................................................................................................................................................
Dividend income
– Mutual funds...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Net gains/(losses) on financial instruments.........................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-operating income (net of directly attributable expenses)...............................................................................................................
Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Rupees crores .
. .
. .
.
.
,. .
.
.
. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Cost of Materials Consumed
Particulars Rupees crores Opening inventory.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Add: Purchases.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Adjustment on account of business combination/(disposal) of subsidiary (net)........................................................................................ . (.) Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . — ,. ,. Less: Closing Inventory........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Foreign currency translation difference.................................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
Particulars Rupees crores Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. . Inventories at the beginning of the year Manufactured components............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . (.) Stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Manufactured components............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . — (.) (.) Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . — Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . — . — Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Less: Inventories on business combination/(disposal) of subsidiaries (net) Less: Hyperinflation adjustment Less: Inventories at the end of the year Manufactured components............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Foreign currency translation difference.................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Net (increase)/decrease in inventories.............................................................................................................................................................................. (,.) (.) COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Employee Benefits Expense
Particulars Rupees crores Salaries and wages, including bonus......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Contribution to provident and other funds.......................................................................................................................................................................... . . Share based payment expenses................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Staff welfare expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Finance Cost
Particulars Rupees crores Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost........................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Interest on lease liabilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Other borrowing cost........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Out of the above, finance cost related to:
– Financial services business.................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. – Others................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Other borrowing cost mainly includes discounting charges and unwinding of discount on financial liabilities other than lease liability.
. Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment Expense
Particulars Rupees crores Depreciation of property, plant and equipment................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Depreciation of right-of-use assets............................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Amortisation of intangible assets................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . Impairment of property, plant & equipment, intangible and intangible under development............................................................ . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Other Expenses Rupees crores Particulars Stores consumed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Tools consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Power & fuel............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Rent including lease rentals @...................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Insurance....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Repairs and maintenance.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Advertisement........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Commission on sales /contracts (net)...................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Freight outward........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Sales promotion expenses................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Travelling and conveyance expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Cost of projects........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Subcontracting, hire and service charges.............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Provision for expected credit losses including write offs (net) $......................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Miscellaneous expenses #................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. @ Short term leases and low value leases recognised as an expense for the year ended March, is aggregating to Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores) and Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) respectively.
# Miscellaneous expenses includes gain on net monetary position for the year ended 31st March, is aggregating to Rs. . crores
(: Rs. Nil).
st $ Break-up of expected credit loss recognised during the year is as follows:Rupees crores
Particulars Expected credit loss on:
– Trade receivables........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . – Contract assets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . – Financial services receivable.............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. – Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Exceptional items (net)
Exceptional items (net) recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss
Rupees crores
Particulars ,. . Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Gain on change in ownership interests in subsidiaries (resulting in loss of control), associates and joint ventures and
change of relationships.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Impairments:
Intangible assets......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Capital work-in-progress and Intangible under development..................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Capital advances......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Other assets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) — Goodwill............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) — Investment accounted using equity method (net).............................................................................................................................................. . . Profit on sale of land........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. .  s described in note (h), the Group reviews for indication of asset impairment at the end of reporting date in addition to any impairment
A
indicators that may arise in between the two reporting periods. If there is any indication of asset impairment, the Group estimates the recoverable
amount of the asset to determine the amount of the impairment loss. During the year ended 31st March, , the internal and external sources of
information on the economic environment in which these entities operate, provided indicators of asset impairment for certain international subsidiaries.
Consequently, impairment has been recognised for property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, capital work-in-progress, intangible assets
under development, capital advance and other intangible assets of certain CGUs amounting to Rs. . crores during the year ended 31st March, (: Rs. . crores). As detailed in note , impairment of goodwill amounting to Rs. . crores has been recognised during the year ended 31st March, (: Rs. Nil). Further, as described in the note (c), the investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted using equity method as per Ind AS – Investments
in Associates and Joint Ventures. As required by Ind AS , after application of the equity method, the Group assesses if there is any objective evidence
based on observable data that its net investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired. Based on the observable evidence, certain investments
in associate and joint ventures were tested for recoverable amounts and impairment reversal (net) amounting to Rs. . crores has been recognised
during the year ended 31st March, (: Rs. . crores).
. Earnings Per Share (EPS)
Particulars Profit for the year for basic EPS (Rupees crores)........................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Profit for the year for diluted EPS (Rupees crores).................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing basic EPS.................................................................... ,,,, ,,,, Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary (Equity) Shares................................................................................................................................................... ,, ,, Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing diluted EPS............................................................... ,,,, ,,,, Basic Earnings per share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs. per share)........................................................................................................................... . . Diluted Earnings per share (Rs.)................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Employee Benefits
General description of defined benefit plans
Gratuity Some of the group entities operate a gratuity plan covering qualifying employees. The benefit payable is the greater of the amount calculated as per the
Payment of Gratuity Act or the Company scheme applicable to the employee. The benefit vests upon completion of five years of continuous service and once
vested it is payable to employees on retirement or on termination of employment. In case of death while in service, the gratuity is payable irrespective of
vesting. Some entities makes annual contribution to the group gratuity scheme administered by the Life Insurance Corporation of India through its Gratuity
Trust Fund.
Post retirement medical Few entities in the Group provide post retirement medical cover to select grade of employees to cover the retiring employee and their spouse upto a
specified age through mediclaim policy on which the premiums are paid. The eligibility of the employee for the benefit as well as the amount of medical
cover purchased is determined by the grade of the employee at the time of retirement.
Post retirement housing allowance The Company operates a post retirement benefit scheme for a certain grade of employees in which a monthly allowance determined on the basis of the
last drawn basic salary at the time of retirement, is paid to the retiring employee in lieu of housing.
Risk exposure
Through its defined benefit plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to government bond yields; if plan assets underperform compared to this yield,
this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans may hold equity type assets, which may carry volatility and associated risk.
Changes in bond yields A decrease in government bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plan’s
investment in debt instruments.
Inflation risk The present value of some of the defined benefit plan obligations are calculated with reference to the future salaries of plan participants. As such, an
increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. The post retirement medical benefit obligation is sensitive to medical inflation
and accordingly, an increase in medical inflation rate would increase the plan’s liability.
Life expectancy The present value of defined benefit plan obligation is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants, both during and
after the employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Employee Benefits (contd.)
Defined benefit plans - Actuarial valuation as on 31st March, Rupees crores
Particulars Funded Plan Unfunded Plans Gratuity Gratuity* Post retirement
medical benefits Post retirement
housing allowance Amounts recognised in profit
or loss
Current service cost............................ . Past service cost................................... . — — — — Net interest expense.......................... . . . . . Total amount included in
employee benefits expense ............ . . . . . . – demographic assumptions. . (.) (.) . (.) (.) — — – financial assumptions........... (.) (.) . . (.) (.) (.) (.) . . . . . . . . — . . . . . . Amounts recognised in other
comprehensive income
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
a)	Actuarial (gains)/losses
arising from changes in - – experience adjustments..... . . . (.) . . (.) . b)	Return on plan assets,
excluding amount included
in net interest expense/
(income)............................................. . (.) — — — — — — Total amount recognised in
other comprehensive income..... (.) (.) . . (.) (.) (.) (.) Opening defined benefit
obligation................................................... ,. ,. . . . . . . Current service cost.......................... . . . . . . . . Past service cost................................. . — — — — . — . Changes in the defined
benefit obligation Interest expense.................................. . . . . . . . . Remeasurements (gains)/losses (.) (.) . . (.) (.) (.) (.) Benefits paid........................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Liability transferred on account
of employees transferred.............. . — — — — — — — Business combination....................... . — . . . — — — Disposal of subsidiaries................... (.) — — (.) — — — — Change in plan on common
control transaction............................. — . — (.) — — — — Foreign exchange translation
difference.................................................. . (.) (.) (.) — — — — Closing defined benefit
obligation................................................... ,. ,. . . . . . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Employee Benefits (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Funded Plan Unfunded Plans Gratuity Gratuity* Post retirement
medical benefits Post retirement
housing allowance Opening fair value of plan
assets........................................................... ,. ,. — — — — — — Interest income..................................... . . — — — — — — Return on plan assets
excluding interest income............. (.) . — — — — — — Contributions by employer............ . . — — . . . . Benefits paid........................................... (.) (.) — — (.) (.) (.) (.) Business combination....................... . — — — — — — — Disposal of subsidiaries................... (.) — — — — — — — Foreign exchange translation
difference.................................................. . (.) — — — — — — Closing fair value of plan
assets........................................................... ,. ,. — — — — — — Changes in fair value of plan
assets Net defined benefit obligation
Defined benefit obligation............. ,. ,. . . . . . . Fair value of plan assets ............. ,. ,. — — — — — — Surplus/(Deficit).................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Current portion of the above..... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Non current portion of the
above............................................................ (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.)
Rupees crores Particulars Actuarial Assumptions and sensitivity
a Actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (%)................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . - . . - . Attrition rate (%).................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . - . . - . Cost inflation (%).................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . - . . - . 
Cost inflation includes an estimate of medical inflation and future salary increases taking in to account of inflation, seniority, promotion and
other relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market.
b	Quantitative sensitivity analysis for impact of significant assumptions on defined benefit obligation are as below:
Assumptions
One percentage point increase in discount rate .......................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point decrease in discount rate ........................................................................................................................................ . . One percentage point increase in salary growth rate............................................................................................................................... . . One percentage point decrease in salary growth rate.............................................................................................................................. (.) (.) One percentage point increase in attrition rate............................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) One percentage point decrease in attrition rate........................................................................................................................................... . . One percentage point increase in medical inflation rate ....................................................................................................................... . . One percentage point decrease in medical inflation rate ..................................................................................................................... (.) (.) COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Employee Benefits (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
Time periods
Upto year....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . - years......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . - years......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . years and above..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Trust-managed Provident fund Rupees crores Particulars
I Defined benefit obligation..................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Fair value of plan assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Surplus/(Deficit)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) — Discount rate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. .% .% Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio (years)........................................................................................................................... . . Guaranteed rate of return.................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Net defined benefit obligation II Actuarial assumptions The Company has recognised an obligation of Rs. . crores (: Nil) on account of interest rate guarantee through OCI. The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds. Group’s contribution (in respect of companies where applicable) for Provident Fund and Superannuation Fund aggregating Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores) has been recognised in the Profit or Loss under the head ‘Employee Benefits Expense’.
. Capital management The Group’s capital management strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. The same is done
through a mix of either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term /long term debt as may be appropriate. The Group determines the amount of capital required on the basis of its product, capital expenditure, operations and strategic investment plans.
The capital structure is monitored on the basis of equity, net debt and maturity profile of overall debt portfolio of the Group. The retail loan finance business of the companies in financial service business is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) and National Housing Bank (NHB). Under capital adequacy guidelines, these companies are required to maintain a capital adequacy ratio
consisting of Tier I and Tier II Capital. The total of Tier II Capital at any point of time, shall not exceed percent of Tier I Capital. The Group companies
in the financial services business have complied with all regulatory requirements related to regulatory capital and capital adequacy ratios as prescribed
by RBI and NHB.
Net Debt and Equity other than financial services segment is given in the table below:
Rupees crores
Particulars ,. ,. Short term debt (including current portion of long term debt).............................................................................................................. ,. ,. Long term debt............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Gross Debt.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Total Equity...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Net Debt Less:
Current investments.................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash and Bank Balances....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Net Debt............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) Total Capital deployed.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial Instruments
Financial Risk Management Framework In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to a certain financial risks namely credit risk, interest risk, currency risk & liquidity risk. The Group’s
primary focus is to achieve better predictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects on its financial performance. The financial risks are managed in accordance with the risk management policy which has been approved by Board of Directors of the respective
Group companies. Board of Directors of financial services businesses have established Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO), which is responsible for developing
and monitoring risk management policies for their businesses. The financial services businesses are exposed to high credit risk given the unbanked rural
customer base and diminishing value of collateral. The credit risk is managed through credit norms established based on historical experience.
(a) Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates etc. could affect the Group’s income or the
value of its holdings of financial instruments including cash flow. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk
exposures within acceptable parameters, while maximising the return. (i) Currency Risk The Group’s exposure to currency risk relates primarily to the Group’s operating activities including anticipated sales & purchase and borrowings
where the transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. The Group’s foreign currency exposures are managed within approved parameters. The Group hedges its foreign currency risk mainly by way
of Forward Covers. Other derivative instruments may also be used if deemed appropriate. The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency exposure at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Particulars Rupees crores US Dollar Euro JPY KRW Others Total Financial Assets ............................................................................. ,. ,. . — . ,. Financial Liabilities ...................................................................... ,. ,. ,. . . ,. Financial Assets ............................................................................. ,. ,. . . . ,. Financial Liabilities ...................................................................... ,. ,. . . . ,. As at 31st March, As at 31st March, Hedge Accounting - Forwards Contracts that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are accounted as per the hedge accounting requirements of Ind AS - Financial
Instruments, while other contracts are accounted as derivatives measured through profit or loss. Details of Forward Foreign Currency Contracts outstanding at the end of reporting period
Outstanding Contracts Rupees crores Notional Carrying amount of hedging
value (#)
instrument included in
Other Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Notional Carrying amount of hedging
value (#)
instrument included in
Other Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Cash Flow Hedges
Buy currency
Maturing in + years
— JPY/INR ................................................... . (.) — — . (.) . (.) Maturing less than year
— USD/INR...................................................... Sell currency
Maturing less than year
— USD/INR .................................................... . (.) . . — BRL/INR .................................................... — — . (.) — ZAR/INR .................................................... . (.) . (.) — EUR/INR .................................................... ,. (.) ,. . — CAD/INR .................................................... . (.) — — — AUD /INR .................................................. . . — — # Notional value of respective currency pair have been converted into presentation currency i.e. INR using year end closing exchange rate COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(a) Market Risk Management (contd.)
(ii) The movements in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve for instruments designated in a cash flow hedge are as follows:
Particulars Rupees crores Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges Interest
Rate Risk
hedges Total Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges Interest
Rate Risk
hedges Total Balance at the beginning of the year................. (.) — (.) (.) (.) (.) (Gains)/Losses transferred to Profit or Loss on
occurrence of the forecast transaction.................... . — . (.) — (.) Change in Fair Value of Effective Portion of
cash flow hedges................................................................ . (.) (.) . . . Deferred Tax on the above......................................... (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) Balance at the end of the year............................... (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) Add: Share of associate /joint Venture................. (.) — (.) . — . Deferred Tax on share of associates /joint
ventures.................................................................................... . — . (.) — (.) Add /(Less): Non controlling interest...................... . — . (.) — (.) Other comprehensive income reclassified to
profit or loss........................................................................... — — — (.) — (.) Less: Deconsolidation of subsidiary....................... (.) — (.) — — — Total............................................................................................ (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) Of the above:
Balance relating to continuing hedges...............
(b) Credit Risk Management Credit Risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group usually
deals with creditworthy counterparties and obtain sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from
defaults. The exposure is continuously monitored. (i) Financial Guarantees 
In addition, the Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to financial guarantees given to banks. The Group’s maximum exposure in this respect
is the maximum amount the Group could have to pay if the guarantee is called on. The accounting of financial guarantees is as explained in
Note (k). The amount recognised in Consolidated Balance Sheet as liabilities is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars (ii) Maximum exposure....................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Amount recognised as liability ........................................................................................................................................................................... . . Trade Receivables The Group applies the simplified approach to providing for expected credit losses prescribed by Ind AS , which permits the use of the
lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables. The Group has computed expected credit losses based on a provision matrix which
uses historical credit loss experience of the Group. Forward-looking information (including macroeconomic information) has been incorporated
into the determination of expected credit losses. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b) Credit Risk Management (contd.) Reconciliation of loss allowance for Trade Receivables: Other than related to hospitality segment
Particulars Rupees crores Balance as at beginning of the year......................................................................................................................................................... . . Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Amounts written off during the year............................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Impairment losses reversed/written back.................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Foreign exchange translation difference...................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) On account of deconsolidation / disposal of subsidiaries................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................ . . Related to hospitality segment Rupees crores Particulars Balance as at beginning of the year......................................................................................................................................................... . . Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Amounts written off during the year............................................................................................................................................................. (.) — Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................ . . In respect of other financial assets, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each
class of financial assets. (iii) Credit risk related to financial services business Financial services business has a comprehensive framework for monitoring credit quality of its Retail and other loans based on days past due
monitoring. Repayment by individual customers and portfolio is tracked regularly and required steps for recovery is taken through follow ups
and legal recourse. The following tables set out information about credit quality of loan assets measured at amortised cost: Retail Loans Particulars Rupees crores ,. ,. ,. ,.
,. Gross carrying value of Retail and SME loan assets
Neither Past due nor impaired............................................................................................................................................................................
Past due but not impaired days past due..............................................................................................................................................................................................
- days past due...................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. Impaired (more than days).............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total Gross carrying value as at reporting date .......................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Trade Advances Particulars Rupees crores Gross carrying amount of trade advances
Less than days past due................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. - days past due................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Impaired (more than days)............................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total Gross carrying value as at reporting date ......................................................................................................................... ,. ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b) Credit Risk Management (contd.) 
Inputs considered in the ECL model 
In assessing the impairment of loans assets under Expected Credit Loss (ECL) Model, the loan assets have been segmented into three stages. The
three stages reflect the general pattern of credit deterioration of a financial instrument. The differences in accounting between stages, relate to
the recognition of expected credit losses and the calculation and presentation of interest revenue. The financial services business categorises loan assets into stages based on the days past due status: — Stage : - days past due — Stage : - days past due — Stage : More than days RBI COVID- Resolution Framework During the year ended 31st March, and year ended 31st March, , the financial services business had implemented resolution plans in
order to provide relief to borrowers adversely impacted due to onslaught of multiple waves /variants of COVID- Pandemic under the resolution
framework . vide circular no. RBI/-/ DOR.No.BP.BC//../- dated 6th August, for personal loan customers and
resolution framework . vide circular No. RBI/-/ DOR.STR.REC./../- dated 5th May, . The loan modifications
executed under both these schemes have not been classified as renegotiated as they are as a result of market-wide customer relief programme
and not borrower-specific. The financial services business continues to monitor the recoverability of loans granted in accordance with these circulars
and is continue to carry adequate provisioning based on the repayment behaviour on these loan accounts. Since the COVID- pandemic has been
brought under control through development of vaccines, announcement of various health improvement and relief measures by respective Govt.
authorities, and economies have returned to normalcy, the Group had witnessed significant improvement in business/financial performance over the
period during second half of previous year as well as current year. Impact of COVID- The outbreak of COVID- led to nationwide lockdown from March , which gradually phased out over the next few months basis the local level
spread of the pandemic. The nation was impacted by the second wave of the pandemic in the first half of the fiscal year which again slowed
down the economic activities to a limited extent. Despite the successful roll out of vaccines around the world, a varying degree of uncertainty
remained through out the year ended 31st March, . This was caused by new variants of COVID-, varying vaccine effectiveness and the need
for reimposing of government - imposed restrictions. This uncertainty is reflected in the financial services business assessment of impairment
loss allowance on its loans which are subject to a number of management judgements and estimates. In relation to COVID-, judgements and
assumptions include the extent and duration of the pandemic, the changes in the macro economic outlook and its associated impact on the
impairment calculations. Assumptions considered in the ECL model The financial services business has made the following assumptions in the ECL Model: – “Loss given default” (LGD) is common for all three Stages and is based on loss in past portfolio. Actual cash flows are discounted at loan EIR
rate for arriving loss rate. – “Probability of Default” (PD) is applied on Stage and Stage on portfolio basis and for Stage PD at %. This is calculated as an average
of the last months yearly movement of default rates and future adjustment for macro economic factor. Estimation Technique The financial services business has applied the following estimation technique in its ECL model: “Probability of Default” (PD) is applied on Stage and Stage on portfolio basis and for Stage PD at %. This is calculated as an average of
the last months yearly movement of default rates and future adjustment for macro economic factor such as agriculture and change in GDP are
considered most relevant in determining the PD. The Group assigns probability to these factors in order to determine the impact of such factors
on PD. –	Loss given default is calculated based on discounted actual cash flow on past portfolio in default along with reversals. The methodologies and assumptions applied in the impairment loss allowance calculations have primarily remained unchanged from those
applied while preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, . The financial services business has been updating the
ECL model with the latest set of data on reasonable periodic intervals for the year ended 31st March, , to capture the significant changes
in economic and market drivers and changes in risk profile of customer credit exposures. Output of ECL model refresh is also factored in
computation of provisions. Forward Looking Information In calculating the expected credit loss rates, the financial services business considers historical loss rates on portfolio over a period which
covers most external factors like drought, government and policy changes etc and these historical PDs are converted into forward looking
PDs considering the agricultural and GDP growth estimates. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b) Credit Risk Management (contd.)
Assessment of significant increase in credit risk When determining whether the risk of default has increased significantly since initial recognition, the financial services business considers both
quantitative and qualitative information and analysis based on the business’s historical experience, including forward-looking information. The
financial services business considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost and effort. The
financial services business’s accounting policy is not to use the practical expedient that the financial assets with ‘low’ credit risk at the reporting
date are deemed not to have had a significant increase in credit risk. As a result the financial services business monitors all financial assets and
loan commitments that are subject to impairment for significant increase in credit risk. Definition of default The financial services business considers a financial asset to be in “default” and therefore Stage (credit impaired) for ECL calculations when the
borrower becomes days past due on its contractual payments except for personal loans, where the Group has an early recognition norm of
classification in to stage on the basis of overdue more than days past due. Policy for write off of Loan Assets The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off when there is no realistic prospect of further recovery. This is generally the case when
the financial services business determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to
repay the amounts subject to the write- off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities under the
recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment loss The expected credit loss allowance provision is determined as follows:
Rupees crores
Performing Underperforming Impaired loans
Loans - loans - 'lifetime - 'lifetime ECL month ECL
ECL not credit credit impaired'
impaired' Particulars Total Gross Balance as at 31st March, ................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. Expected credit loss rate .................................................................................................... .% .% .% Carrying amount as at March, (net of impairment
provision)........................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Gross Balance as at March, ................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. Expected credit loss rate .................................................................................................... .% .% .% Carrying amount as at 31st March, (net of impairment
provision) ......................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. st st ,. Level of Assessment - Aggregation Criteria The financial services business recognises the expected credit losses on a collective basis that takes into account comprehensive credit risk information and considers the economic and risk characteristics, pricing range and sector concentration. Reconciliation of loss allowance provision for Retail and SME loans Particulars Balance as at 1st April, ............................................................................................
— Transferred to/from months ECL..........................................................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL not credit impaired....................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL credit impaired..............................................
Business combination during the year............................................................................
Loans that have been derecognised during the year...........................................
New loans originated during the year.............................................................................
Write-offs..............................................................................................................................................
Net remeasurement of loss allowance...........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, ..................................................................................... Rupees crores -month ECL Lifetime ECL not
credit impaired
.
.
.
(.)
.
(.)
.
(.)
(.)
. .
(.)
.
(.)
.
(.)
.
(.)
.
,. Lifetime
ECL credit
impaired Total ,.
(.)
(.)
.
.
(.)
.
(.)
,.
,. ,.
—
—
—
.
(,.)
,.
(.)
,.
,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b) Credit Risk Management (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Balance as at 1st April, ............................................................................................
— Transferred to/from months ECL..........................................................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL not credit impaired....................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL credit impaired..............................................
Loans that have been derecognised during the year...........................................
New loans originated during the year.............................................................................
Write-offs..............................................................................................................................................
Net remeasurement of loss allowance...........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, ..................................................................................... -month ECL Lifetime ECL not
credit impaired
.
.
.
.
(.)
.
(.)
(.)
. ,.
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
(.)
(.)
. Lifetime
ECL credit
impaired Total ,.
(.)
(.)
.
(.)
.
(.)
,.
,. ,.
—
—
—
(,.)
.
(.)
.
,. Trade advances Rupees crores Particulars Loss allowance provision......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Impairment loss on financial services receivable for the year ended 31st March, recognised in profit or loss of Rs. ,. crores
(: Rs. ,. crores) includes bad debts and write offs of Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores), reversal of provision for expected
credit loss of Rs. ,. crores (: provision of Rs. . crores) and provision for loan commitments of Rs. . crores (: provision
reversal of Rs. . crores). ‘ months ECL’ and ‘lifetime ECL not credit impaired’ are collectively assessed. ‘Lifetime ECL credit impaired’ are individually assessed. Loan which are written off continue to be subject of enforcement activity. Significant changes in the gross carrying value that contributed to change in loss allowance The financial services business mostly provides loans to retail individual customers in Rural and Semi urban area which are of small ticket size.
Change in any single customer repayment will not impact significantly to provisioning. All customers are being monitored based on past due status
of outstanding loan and corrective actions are taken accordingly to limit the financial services businesses risk. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial services business’s loan portfolio is predominantly to finance retail automobile and allied equipment loans, housing loans and other
business loans. The financial services business manages concentration of risk primarily by geographical region in India. The following table shows
the geographical concentrations of financial loans as at year end:
Rupees crores
Particulars ,. ,. North .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
East .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
West ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
South ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
,. Total Loans as at reporting year ............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Carrying Value .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Concentration by Geographical region in India: Maximum Exposure to credit Risk The maximum exposure to credit risk of loans is their carrying amount. The maximum exposure is before considering the effect of mitigation
through collateral. Narrative Description of Collateral The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the financial services business upon extension of credit, is based on management’s credit
evaluation of the counterparty. Collateral primarily include vehicles and residential units purchased by retail loan customers. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b) Credit Risk Management (contd.)
Quantitative Information of Collateral - Credit Impaired assets (Collateral Coverage - Value of collateral available to mitigate the credit exposure) Rupees crores Loan To Value (LTV) Range (c) Gross Value of loans in stage Upto % coverage........................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . - % coverage............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . - % coverage......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Above % coverage..................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Liquidity risk management
(i) Maturity profile of non-derivative financial liabilities The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can
be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Rupees crores
Particulars Less than Year - Years Years to Years years
and above As at 31st March, Short term borrowings - Principal ............................................................................. ,. — — — Short term borrowings - Interest ............................................................................... ,. — — — Long term borrowings - Principal................................................................................. — ,. ,. ,. Long term borrowings - Interest................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Trade payables ......................................................................................................................... ,. . — — Financial Guarantees ........................................................................................................... . — — — Lease Liabilities.......................................................................................................................... . ,. . ,. Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................... ,. . . . Total.................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. As at March, st Short term borrowings - Principal ............................................................................. ,. — — — Short term borrowings - Interest ............................................................................... ,. — — — Long term borrowings - Principal ............................................................................... — ,. ,. ,. Long term borrowings - Interest ................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Trade payables............................................................................................................................ ,. . — — Financial Guarantees ........................................................................................................... . — — — Lease Liabilities.......................................................................................................................... . . . ,. Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................... ,. . . . Total.................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group could be forced to settle under the
arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations at
the end of the reporting period, the Group considers that it is more likely than not that such an amount will not be payable under the
arrangement. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(c) Liquidity risk management (contd.)
(ii) Maturity profile of derivative financial liabilities The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
Particulars Rupees crores Less than Year - Years Years to Years Interest rate & currency swaps................................................................................................................................. . . — Foreign exchange forward contracts.................................................................................................................... . . — Commodity futures............................................................................................................................................................ . — — Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interests............................................................................... . — . . . . Interest rate & currency swaps............................................................................................................................... . . . Foreign exchange forward contracts.................................................................................................................. . — — Commodity futures.......................................................................................................................................................... . — — Derivatives on interest over joint ventures.................................................................................................... . — — Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interests............................................................................. . — . . . . As at 31st March, As at 31st March, (d) Sensitivity Analysis (i) Foreign Currency Sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in major exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant.
Rupees crores
Effect on
Profit Before
Tax Effect on
pre-tax
equity . (.) +% . — +% . — +% . (.) JPY/USD +% . — INR/EUR +% . — Particulars Currency Change in rate Year ended 31st March, ....................................................................................... INR/USD +% JPY/USD
INR/EUR
INR/USD Year ended 31st March, ............................................................................................ The sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because the exposure at the end of the reporting period does
not reflect the exposure during the year. (ii) Interest Rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on exposure to interest rate for both derivative and non-derivative instruments
at the end of reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the
reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings
affected, after the impact of hedge accounting. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the
impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Year ended 31st March, ...................................................................................
Year ended 31st March, ........................................................................................ Currency Increase/
decrease in
basis points Effect on
profit before
tax Effect on
pre-tax
equity INR + bps (.) — EUR + bps (.) — INR + bps (.) — EUR + bps (.) — (i) Quoted bid price in
active market (.) Level ,. Level . Level . Level . Level . Level (.) ,. . . . . Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTOCI Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTPL Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTOCI Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Financial
Liabilities Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets )	Gross obligation
to acquire noncontrolling interest )	Investment in Mutual
Funds and Alternate
Investment Fund )	Investment in equity
instruments -Quoted )	Investment in
equity instrumentsUnquoted Quoted bid price in
active market . Level . Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL Financial
Assets /
(Liabilities) )	Derivatives on
interest over
Subsidiaries,
associates and joint
ventures Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow Discounted Cash
Flow /Market Multiple
approach Net asset value Comparable Companies
Method /Discounted
Cash-flow /Price of
recent transactions /
Comparable Companies
quoted multiples Comparable Companies
Method /Discounted
Cash-flow /Price of
recent transactions /
Comparable Companies
quoted multiples Black Scholes valuation
model (.) Level (.) Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL Financial
Assets /
(Liabilities) )	Currency options Discounted Cash Flow
and Interest rate . Level Valuation technique(s) (.) Fair value hierarchy Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL /FVTOCI Fair Value
Category Financial
)	Foreign currency
forwards, Interest rate Assets /
(Liabilities)
swaps & commodity
derivatives Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities Financial Instruments regularly measured using fair value - recurring items Fair Value Disclosures Financial assets/
financial liabilities (e) . Financial Instruments (contd.) Rupees crores — — Increase or decrease in key
assumptions, multiples will
result in increase or decrease
in valuation.
Terminal growth
rate, weighted
average cost of
capital.
Market multiples
used for
benchmarking.
For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The
discounted cash flow method used to capture the
present value of the expected future economic
benefits to be derived from the ownership of
these investees. The key inputs includes, long term
revenue growth rates, long term pre tax operating
profit margin, WACC, Discount for lack market for
respective equity instrument
For Market Multiple approach - In this approach fair
value is derived based on market multiples like PE
multiple, Enterprise value (EV) multiple, Revenue
Multiple etc. — — — — — — — Any change (increase /
decrease) in the discount
factor, financial projections etc.
would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of
gross obligation to acquire noncontrolling interest
Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections For Comparable Companies Method /Comparable
Companies Quoted Multiples - compare the price
for which comparable companies are traded on the
capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of balance sheet,
statement of profit and loss account along with
underlying assumptions.
— Any change (increase /
decrease) in the discount
factor, financial projections etc.
would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of
derivatives on interest in
subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures.
Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections For Comparable Companies Method /Comparable
Companies Quoted Multiples - compare the price
for which comparable companies are traded on the
capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of balance sheet,
statement of profit and loss account along with
underlying assumptions. — — Significant
Relationship of unobservable
unobservable
inputs to fair value and
input(s) for level sensitivity
hierarchy Strike rate, spot rate, time to maturity, volatility and —
risk free interest rate. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange
rates at the end of the reporting period) and
contract forward rates, discounted at a rate that
reflects the credit risk of various counter parties. Key inputs MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - (i) Financial
Liabilities Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL — Level Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow/
Market Multiple
approach — — Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections — — For Market Multiple approach - In this approach
fair value is derived based on market multiples like
Revenue multiple, etc.. — STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS Market multiples
used for
benchmarking. Increase or decrease in key
assumptions, multiples will
result in increase or decrease
in valuation. Interest rates to
discount future
cash flow, financial
projections For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The
discounted cash flow method used to capture the
present value of the expected future economic
benefits to be derived from the ownership of
these investees. The key inputs includes, long term
revenue growth rates, balance sheets, statement of
profit and loss along with underlying assumptions. For Discounted Cash Flow approach The discounted cash flow method used to capture
the present value of the expected future economic
benefits to be derived from the ownership of
these investees. The key inputs includes, long term
revenue growth rates, balance sheets, statement of
profit and loss along with underlying assumptions. — — — — BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT )	Convertible
Preference shares Market price Increase or decrease in
multiple will result in increase
or decrease in valuation — — CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE Market price — — — — Significant
Relationship of unobservable
unobservable
inputs to fair value and
input(s) for level sensitivity
hierarchy Key inputs MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow Quoted market price Quoted market price Quoted market price Valuation technique(s) BOARD’S
REPORT (.) — Level ,. Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Financial
Assets . Level ,. Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI . Level . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Financial
Assets — Level . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL )	Investment in Other
financial instruments
-CP, CD . Level Financial
Assets )	Investment in
debt instruments Debentures/Bonds/
Preference shares,
etc . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI Fair value hierarchy ,. Level ,. Fair Value Rupees crores COMPANY
OVERVIEW Financial
)	Investment in
Assets
debt instruments Government Securities Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities Financial Instruments regularly measured using fair value - recurring items (contd.) Fair Value Disclosures (contd.) Financial assets/
financial liabilities (e) . Financial Instruments (contd.) CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(e) Fair Value Disclosures (contd.)
(i) Financial Instruments regularly measured using fair value - recurring items (contd.) Reconciliation of Level fair value measurements of financial instruments measured at fair value
Rupees crores
Unquoted
Equity
investment Investment in
debentures/
bonds etc Derivatives on
interest over
Subsidiaries and
joint ventures
(Net) Gross obligation
to acquire
non-controlling
interest . . . (.) a)	in profit/(loss).......................................................................................... (.) (.) (.) . b)	in other comprehensive income................................................. (.) — — — Purchase during the year............................................................................ . Disposal during the year.............................................................................. (.) — — . Exercise of put option................................................................................... — — . — Adjustment for share of losses of joint ventures...................... — . — — Change in relationship during the year............................................. . — — — Reclassified as held for sale...................................................................... — — (.) — Exchange differences (.) — — . Closing balance................................................................................................ . . . (.) . . . (.) Particulars Year Ended 31st March, Opening balance.............................................................................................
Total gains or losses recognised: Year Ended 31st March, Opening balance.............................................................................................
Total gains or losses recognised:
a) in profit/(loss).......................................................................................... . (.) (.) . b) in other comprehensive income................................................. (.) — — — Purchase during the year ......................................................................... . — — — Disposal /conversion into equity during the year...................... (.) (.) — — Exercise of put option ................................................................................. — — (.) . Adjustment for share of losses of joint ventures...................... — . — — . — — . . . . (.) Exchange differences
Closing balance................................................................................................ COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Financial Instruments (contd.)
(e) Fair Value Disclosures (contd.) Equity Investments designated at FVTOCI Rupees crores Particulars . . Investment in quoted and unquoted equity instruments:
Fair value of investments........................................................................................................................................................................................ (ii) Financial Instruments measured at amortised cost
Rupees crores
Particulars Carrying Value Fair value Fair value
Level Level Level As at March, st Financial assets
a) Investments ,. ,. ,. . — b) Trade Receivables................................................. ,. ,. — ,. — c) Financial Services Receivable....................... ,. ,. — — ,. d) Security Deposit..................................................... . . — . — e) Other financial assets including loans ,. ,. — ,. . f) Fixed Deposit including margin
accounts..................................................................... ,. ,. — ,. — Total............................................................................. ,,. ,,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — Financial liabilities
a) Non-Current Borrowings..................................
b) Lease liabilities........................................................ ,. ,. — ,. — c) Trade Payable.......................................................... ,. ,. — ,. — d) Current Borrowings.............................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. — e) Other Financial Liabilities................................ ,. ,. — ,. . Total............................................................................. ,,. ,,. ,. ,. . As at 31st March, Financial assets
a) Investments ,. ,. ,. . — b) Trade Receivables................................................. ,. ,. — ,. — c) Financial Services Receivable....................... ,. ,. — — ,. d) Security Deposit..................................................... . . — . — e) Other financial assets including loans... ,. ,. — ,. . f) Fixed Deposit including margin
accounts...................................................................... . . — . — Total............................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — Financial liabilities
a) Non-Current Borrowings..................................
b) Lease liabilities........................................................ ,. ,. — ,. — c) Trade Payable.......................................................... ,. ,. — ,. — d) Current Borrowings.............................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. — e) Other Financial Liabilities................................ ,. ,. — ,. . Total............................................................................. ,,. ,,. ,. ,. . There were no transfers between Level and Level during the year. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - . Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership
(a) Acquisition of Subsidiaries /Business
(i) Swaraj Engines Limited On 27th September, , Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional .% of voting shares of Swaraj Engines Limited
(SEL), a manufacturer of diesel engines and hi-tech engine components for fitments in tractors, based in India. Consequent to this investment,
the shareholding and voting rights of the Company in SEL increased from .% to .% and the status of SEL changed from an associate
to a subsidiary effective 28th September, . The acquisition was made with the objective of strengthening Farm Equipment Sector. In the consolidated financial statements, the existing shares of SEL have been remeasured at acquisition date fair value in accordance with
Ind AS - ‘Business Combinations’. The gain on remeasurement of existing shares at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items in
consolidated statement of profit and loss. Consequent to gaining of control, the results of SEL have been consolidated by the Group from 28th September, on a line-by-line basis. The consideration transferred and goodwill on acquisition is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Purchase consideration...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Fair value of previously held interest...................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Non Controlling interest.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .
,. Less: Fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired......................................................................................................................................................................... . Goodwill on acquisition.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . On acquisition date, the non-controlling interest has been measured at its proportionate share of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The
goodwill has been allocated to ‘Farm Equipment’ segment. The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the above business combination are as under:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Property, Plant and Equipment.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (ii) . Cash and cash equivalents.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . Other current and non-current assets/(liabilities), net................................................................................................................................................................ . Deferred tax assets/(liabilities), net.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) Fair value of net asset/(liabilities) acquired............................................................................................................................................................................... . Sampo Rosenlew Oy On 21st July, , Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional .% of voting shares of Sampo Rosenlew Oy (Sampo),
a combine harvester company based in Finland. Consequent to this investment, the shareholding and voting rights of the Company in Sampo
increased from .% to % and the status of Sampo changed from a joint venture to a subsidiary effective 22nd July, . The Company’s
scale in tractors and Sampo’s expertise in combine harvesters will allow to offer a broader product portfolio to address the needs of farmers
in various countries. In the consolidated financial statements, the pre-existing shares of Sampo have been remeasured at acquisition date fair value in accordance
with Ind AS - ‘Business Combinations’. The gain on remeasurement of existing shares at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items
in consolidated statement of profit & loss. Consequent to gaining of control, the results of Sampo have been consolidated by the Group from 22nd July, on a line-by-line basis. The consideration transferred and goodwill on acquisition is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Purchase consideration................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Value of put option exercised.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) Fair value of previously held interest................................................................................................................................................................................................... .
. Less: Fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired...................................................................................................................................................................... (.) Goodwill on acquisition............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . The goodwill has been allocated to ‘Farm Equipment’ segment. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership (contd.)
(a) Acquisition of Subsidiaries /Business (contd.) The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the above business combination are as under:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Property, Plant and Equipment....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible Assets.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash and cash equivalents..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current and non-current assets/(liabilities), net................................................................................................................................................................
Borrowings..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Fair value of net asset/(liabilities) acquired............................................................................................................................................................................... .
.
.
.
.
.
(.) (iii) Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited On 29th March, , Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional .% of voting shares of Mahindra Aerospace Private
Limited (MAPL). MAPL is engaged in the business of inter alia, research, design, manufacture, operation, assembly, and maintenance of various
kinds of aircrafts and aircraft components and aerostructures, directly /through its subsidiaries. Consequent to this investment, the shareholding
and voting rights of the Company in MAPL increased from .% to % and the status of MAPL changed from a joint venture to a
subsidiary effective 29th March, . In the consolidated financial statements, the pre-existing shares of MAPL have been remeasured at acquisition date fair value in accordance with
Ind AS - ‘Business Combinations’. The gain on remeasurement of existing shares at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items in
consolidated statement of profit & loss. Consequent to gaining of control, the results of MAPL have been consolidated by the Group from 29th March, on a line-by-line basis. The consideration transferred and goodwill on acquisition is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Purchase consideration......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Fair value of previously held interest......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Less: Fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired.........................................................................................................................................................................
Goodwill on acquisition.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. .
.
.
.
. The goodwill has been allocated to ‘Others’ segment. The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the above business combination are as under:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Property, Plant and Equipment....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible Assets.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash and cash equivalents..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current and non-current assets/(liabilities), net................................................................................................................................................................
Borrowings..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Fair value of net asset/(liabilities) acquired............................................................................................................................................................................... .
.
.
.
.
. (iv) Acquisition of B2B Express business of Rivigo Services Private Limited During the year ended 31st March, , MLL Express Services Private Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mahindra Logistics Limited, a
subsidiary of the Company, acquired the B2B express business of Rivigo Services Private Limited, as a going concern, on slump sale basis, for a
consideration of Rs. . crores (post adjustments as per the terms of the Business Transfer Agreement). A Goodwill of Rs. . crores
has been recognised in books pertaining to this acquisition. (v) M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited During the year, the Company has acquired .% of the paid up capital of M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (MITRA) for a consideration
of Rs. . crores. MITRA is an Indian Company which manufactures and sells agricultural sprayers. Following the acquisition, the shareholding
of the Company in MITRA stands increased to % from the existing .%. Consequently, the status of MITRA changed from joint venture
to a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. A Goodwill of Rs. . crores has been recognised in books pertaining to this acquisition. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership (contd.)
(b) Reduction in shareholding resulting in loss of control
(i) Mahindra Susten Private Limited During the year, Mahindra Holdings Limited (MHL), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, divested % equity interest in Mahindra Susten
Private Limited (MSPL), as a result of which the shareholding and voting rights of MHL has reduced from % to %. Further, consequent to
the rights given to the investor, MSPL and its subsidiaries are accounted as joint ventures w.e.f. 23rd December, . In the consolidated financial
statement, retained interest in MSPL has been remeasured at fair value in accordance with Ind AS -`Consolidated Financial Statements’. The
gain on equity interest sold and remeasurement of retained interest at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items in the consolidated
financial statement. (ii) Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. During the year, Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. (MTWEH) a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered and executed an
agreement whereby the existing % shareholding and voting rights of MTWEH in Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (PMTC) stands reduced to %
in terms of shareholding and .% in terms of voting rights. Consequently, PMTC and the subsidiaries of PMTC ceased to be subsidiaries of
MTWEH.
(c) Partial disposal of investments in associates
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited During the year ended 31st March, , Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) sold ,,, shares of Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
(MCIE). Following this sale, the Company’s shareholding in MCIE has decreased from .% to .%.
(d) Held for sale During the year, investment in Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private
Limited) has been classified as held for sale. The sale has been completed subsequent to 31st March, and before the financial statements have
been approved for issue by the Board.
.	During the year ended 31st March, , the Company formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) to undertake the
four-wheel passenger electric business and transferred certain existing assets to MEAL. Further, in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement
entered with British International Investment Plc (BII), wherein the Company and BII each agreed to invest Rs. . crores in MEAL in tranches, both
the Company and BII have invested Rs. . crores each till 31st March, . The investment by the Company is in Equity shares of MEAL whereas
investment by BII is in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MEAL. Unless agreed to in writing for an early conversion, each CCPS is compulsorily and automatically convertible into such number of equity shares as
determined as per a pre-determined formula at the conversion date, as per terms and conditions of the agreement (s) entered between the Company
and BII. Since the CCPS is convertible into variable number of equity shares of MEAL, it has been classified as financial liability at fair value through profit
or loss in the financial statements of MEAL and in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Further, in accordance with the shareholders’
agreement, the Company shall take best efforts to provide BII with a complete exit between 1st November, and 1st November, through certain
exit options (or a combination thereof), as may be determined by the Company in its sole discretion. In case exit has not been provided to BII by such time,
BII shall have the right upto 31st October, to require full exit to be provided by the Company or by its affiliates and/or a third party at the higher of
fair market value and the amount invested by the BII.
. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest
(a) Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
st
As at March,
Operation Name of the Subsidiary Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited.................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited #............................................................................................................................................................ India — .% NBS International Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited........................................................................................................................................... Australia .% .% Mahindra Europe s.r.l. ............................................................................................................................................................................................ Italy .% .% Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary) Limited........................................................................................................ South Africa .% .% Mahindra West Africa Limited (Liquidated w.e.f. January, )....................................................................................... Nigeria — .% Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Automobili Pininfarina GmbH............................................................................................................................................................................. Germany .% .% Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc............................................................................................................................................................. U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra Automotive North America Inc.................................................................................................................................................. U.S.A. .% .% th COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a) Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation Name of the Subsidiary Mahindra Vehicle Sales and Service Inc..................................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra North American Technical Center, Inc................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited (Liquidated w.e.f. 14th March, )..................................................................... Bangladesh — .% Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (w.e.f. October, ).......................................................................................... India .% — Gromax Agri Equipment Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Trringo.com Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra USA Inc....................................................................................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% th Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd $.................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Ryono Factory Co., Ltd............................................................................................................................................................................................ Japan .% .% Ryono Engineering Co., Ltd.................................................................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Dia Computer Service Co., Ltd........................................................................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Ryono Asset Management Co., Ltd................................................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L. (Under Liquidation)................................................................................................................................. Mexico .% .% Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda................................................................................................................................................................. Brazil .% .% Erkunt Traktor Sanayii Anonim Şirketi........................................................................................................................................................ Turkey .% .% Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi............................................................................................................................................................................ Turkey .% .% Sampo Rosenlew Oy (w.e.f. July, )^........................................................................................................................................ Finland .% — Swaraj Engines Limited (w.e.f. 28th September, ) ^^.............................................................................................................. India .% — th M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (w.e.f. March, ) ^................................................................................. India .% — Kota Farm Services Limited @.......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra HZPC Private Limited....................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Fruits Private Limited....................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% OFD Holding B.V. (upto 20th April, ) **............................................................................................................................................. Netherlands — .% Origin Direct Asia Ltd. (upto April, ) **................................................................................................................................. Hong Kong — .% Origin Fruit Direct B.V. (upto 20th April, ) **................................................................................................................................ Netherlands — .% th Origin Fruit Services South America SpA (upto April, ) **..................................................................................... Chile — .% Origin Direct Asia (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. (upto 20th April, ) **............................................................................ China — .% Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution Holding Company (Europe) B.V.
(Liquidated w.e.f. 28th February, )........................................................................................................................................................ Netherlands — .% Merakisan Private Limited (upto September, ) **............................................................................................................ India — .% Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited........................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Fifth Gear Ventures Limited................................................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited ESOP Trust............................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited............................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited.................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Finance CSR Foundation................................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% nd th th MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a) Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.) Name of the Subsidiary Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation MRHFL Employee Welfare Trust (ESOP).................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited ESOP Trust.................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited........................................................................................................................................................................ Sri Lanka .% .% Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited..................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Infrastructure Developers Limited.......................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited............................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Knowledge Township Limited............................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Integrated Township Limited ##............................................................................................................................................... India — .% Mahindra Residential Developers Limited ##......................................................................................................................................... India — .% Industrial Township (Maharashtra) Limited.............................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Anthurium Developers Limited......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Water Utilities Limited..................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Rathna Bhoomi Enterprises Private Limited........................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Deep Mangal Developers Private Limited................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Moonshine Construction Private Limited.................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited.................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited............................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Hotels and Residences India Limited.................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Gables Promoters Private Limited................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Heritage Bird (M) Sdn. Bhd.................................................................................................................................................................................. Malaysia .% .% Infinity Hospitality Group Company Limited............................................................................................................................................ Thailand .% .% MH Boutique Hospitality Limited @.............................................................................................................................................................. Thailand .% .% MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited.................................................................................................................................................................. Mauritius .% .% Covington S.a.r.l........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Luxembourg .% .% HCR Management Oy ###.................................................................................................................................................................................. Finland — .% Holiday Club Resorts Oy....................................................................................................................................................................................... Finland .% .% Kiinteistö Oy Himos Gardens ###.................................................................................................................................................................. Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Vanha Ykköstii ###................................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Katinnurkka ###......................................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Tenetinlahti ###.......................................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Mällösniemi ###.......................................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta ###............................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta ###............................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Tiurunniemi ###.......................................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt #^............................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt (Formerly known as Supermarket Capri Oy).............................................. Finland .% .% COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a) Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation Name of the Subsidiary Kiinteistö Oy Kylpyläntorni ###................................................................................................................................................................. Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts ###.......................................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts ###.......................................................................................................................................................................... Finland — .% Kiinteistö Oy Kuusamon Pulkkajärvi ###............................................................................................................................................ Finland — .% Ownership Services Sweden Ab....................................................................................................................................................................... Sweden .% .% Are Villa AB................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Sweden .% .% Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre.............................................................................................................................................................................. Sweden .% .% Holiday Club Sport and Spahotels AB......................................................................................................................................................... Sweden .% .% Holiday Club Resorts Rus LLC.......................................................................................................................................................................... Russia .% .% Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L.U.................................................................................................................................................. Spain .% .% Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing S.L.U.................................................................................................................................... Spain .% .% Holiday Club Canarias Resort Management S.L.U............................................................................................................................... Spain .% .% Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club SLU................................................................................................................................................ Spain .% .% Arabian Dreams Hotel Apartments LLC @............................................................................................................................................... U.A.E .% .% Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited ESOP Trust................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Holidays & Resorts Harihareshwar Limited (w.e.f. August, ).......................................................... India .% — Guestline Hospitality Management and Development Services Limited (w.e.f December, )............ India .% — Mahindra Logistics Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Lords Freight (India) Private Limited............................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% x Logistics Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% MLL Express Services Private Limited (Formerly known as Meru Travel Solutions Private Limited)............ India .% .% MLL Mobility Private Limited (Formerly known as Meru Mobility Tech Private Limited)........................................ India .% .% V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% V-Link Automotive Services Private Limited........................................................................................................................................... India .% .% V-Link Freight Services Private Limited (w.e.f September, ).................................................................................... India .% — MLL Global Logistics Limited (w.e.f December, ).............................................................................................................. U.K. .% — Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l................................................................................................................................... Luxembourg .% .% Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (upto January, ) **................................................................................................................ France — .% Peugeot Motocycles Deutschland GmbH (upto 31st January, ) **.............................................................................. Germany — .% Peugeot Motocycles Italia S.p.A. (Under liquidation) (upto 31st January, ) **...................................................... Italy — .% PMTC Engineering SPA (upto 31st January, ) **........................................................................................................................ Italy — .% Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc. (Liquidated w.e.f 21st October, )................................................................................ U.S.A. — .% Bristlecone Limited................................................................................................................................................................................................... Cayman
Islands .% .% Bristlecone Consulting Limited......................................................................................................................................................................... Canada .% .% rd nd th th st MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a) Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation Name of the Subsidiary Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd....................................................................................................................................................................... Malaysia .% .% Bristlecone International AG.............................................................................................................................................................................. Switzerland .% .% Bristlecone UK Limited........................................................................................................................................................................................... U.K. .% .% Bristlecone Inc.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. U.S.A. .% .% Bristlecone Middle East DMCC.......................................................................................................................................................................... U.A.E. .% .% Bristlecone India Limited....................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Bristlecone GmbH...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Germany .% .% Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited............................................................................................................................................................ Singapore .% .% Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica Limited......................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra Susten Private Limited (upto December, ) ^^^...................................................................................... India — .% Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (upto December, ) ^^^.......................................................................... India — .% Neo Solren Private Limited (upto December, ) ^^^................................................................................................... India — .% Astra Solren Private Limited (upto December, ) ^^^................................................................................................ India — .% Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (upto December, ) ^^^......................................................................................... India — .% MSPL International DMCC (upto December, ) ^^^...................................................................................................... Dubai — .% Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited (upto December, ) ^^^...................................................... India — .% Martial Solren Private Limited (upto December, ) ^^^............................................................................................ India — .% Mahindra Teqo Private Limited......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Solarize Private Limited................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited (w.e.f. 29th August, ).................................................................................... India .% — Emergent Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 9th November, )................................................................................................... India .% — Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra Intertrade Limited).................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited...................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra MiddleEast Electrical Steel Service Centre (FZC)........................................................................................................ U.A.E. .% .% Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited............................................................................................................................................... India .% .% PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia............................................................................................................................................................. Indonesia .% .% Mahindra Defence Systems Limited.............................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring FZ-LLC....................................................................................................................................... U.A.E. .% .% Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordan, LLC.................................................................................................................................................... Jordan .% .% Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited (w.e.f. June, ) ^................................................................. India .% — Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (w.e.f March, ) ^.............................................................................................. India .% — Mahindra Aerostructures Pvt Ltd (w.e.f. March ) ^..................................................................................................... India .% — Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (w.e.f. 29th March ) ^.......................................................................................... Australia .% — nd nd nd nd nd nd nd nd th th th COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a) Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation Name of the Subsidiary Gipps Aero Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) ^...................................................................................................................................... Australia .% — Airvan Flight Services Pty Ltd (w.e.f March, ) ^............................................................................................................ Australia .% — GA8 Airvan Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) ^..................................................................................................................................... Australia .% — GA200 Pty Ltd (w.e.f March, ) ^............................................................................................................................................... Australia .% — Nomad TC Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, ) ^....................................................................................................................................... Australia .% — Airvan Pty Ltd (w.e.f March, ) ^........................................................................................................................................ Australia .% — Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited (upto 16th March, ) **...................................................................................... India — .% Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited ESOP Trust (upto 16th March, ) **......................................................... India — .% Mahindra Namaste Limited (upto 16th March, ) **.................................................................................................................. India — .% Mahindra Airways Limited..................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited.................................................................................................................................................... Mauritius .% .% Mahindra Holdings Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% th th th Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited................................................................................................... Mauritius .% .% Mahindra Racing UK Limited.............................................................................................................................................................................. U.K. .% .% Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private Limited.............................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra eMarket Limited................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Construction Company Limited................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Officemartindia.com Limited............................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited @................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited........................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Limited............................................................................................................ India .% .% New Democratic Electoral Trust @............................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Sunrise Initiatives Trust......................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mumbai Mantra Media Limited.......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Marine Private Limited.................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra Benefit Trust.............................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust.................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% * excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities /their holding companies but not allotted to employees. @	entities have been treated as subsidiaries even though the Group holds less than half of the voting power in these entities as it has unilateral control
over the investees due to other factors that give power like control over composition of board, management control etc. $	In addition to JPY750 million Common Stock (which represents .% of the Common stock), the Company owns the entire JPY2250 million
“Class A” shares (shares with no voting rights); “Class A” shares have rights over dividend and liquidation on an equal basis with Common Stock. ^
^^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from joint venture to subsidiary.
During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from associate to subsidiary. ^^^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to joint venture.
# Entities have been merged with Mahindra and Mahindra Limited. ## Entities have been merged with Mahindra World City Developers Limited, a joint venture of the company. ### Entities have been merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy, a subsidiary of the company.
#^ Entities have been merged with Supermarket Capri Oy, a subsidiary of the company. ** Entity has been disposed off and ceased to be a Subsidiary. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(b) Details of Non-Wholly Owned Subsidiaries that have material Non Controlling Interest
Rupees crores Sr.
No. Name of the Subsidiary Place of
Incorporation
and Place of
Operation Proportion of Ownership
Interest and voting rights
held by non controlling
interests Profit /(Loss) allocated
to non controlling
interest Accumulated non
Controlling Interest .% .% ,. . ,. ,. Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited.................................................... Individually Immaterial
Non Controlling Interest.................................. . . ,. ,. Total.............................................................................. ,. . ,. ,. India Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited’s Principal Activity - Financing and leasing of automobiles, tractors, commercial vehicles, SMEs and
housing finance.
(c)	Summarised financial information in respect of each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests is set out
below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts based on their consolidated financial statements.
Rupees crores
Particulars Mahindra & Mahindra
Financial Services
Limited-Consolidated Current Assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Non Current Assets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Current Liabilities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Non Current Liabilities......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Equity Interest Attributable to the owners.......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Non Controlling Interest..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Revenue......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Profit/(Loss) for the year................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Profit/(Loss) attributable to the owners of the company......................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Profit/(Loss) attributable to the Non-Controlling Interest......................................................................................................................................................... (.) . Opening Cash & Cash Equivalents.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Closing Cash & Cash Equivalents................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Net Cash inflow/(outflow)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Dividends paid to non controlling interest............................................................................................................................................................................................ . . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates
Interests in Joint Ventures:
The Group’s interests in jointly controlled entities of the Group are:
Proportion of ownership
Place of
interest
Incorporation and
Place of Operation
As at 31st March, Name of the Entity India .% .% Carnot Technologies Private Limited # India .% .% Sampo Rosenlew Oy (upto 21st July, ) #^ Finland — .% Sampo Algeria SpA (w.e.f. 22nd July, ) Algeria .% — M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (upto 16th March, ) ^ India — .% Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private Limited # India .% .% Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited # India .% .% Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited # India .% .% Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private Limited # India .% .% Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited # India .% .% Mahindra World City Developers Limited # India .% .% Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited # India .% .% Mahindra Homes Private Limited # India .% .% Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited India .% .% Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited ** India .% .% Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited # India .% .% Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari** Japan .% .% Tropiikin Rantasauna Oy Finland .% .% Transtech Logistics Private Limited India .% .% Jinan Qingqi Peugeot Motocycles Co Ltd. (upto 31st January, ) China — .% Classic Legends Private Limited # India .% .% Mahindra-BT Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited # Mauritius .% .% Marvel Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, )# India — .% Mahindra Susten Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, ) ^^ # India .% — Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited (upto June, ) #^ .% Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited India — Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special
Steel Private Limited) India .% .% Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (upto 28th March, ) #^ India — .% Zoomcar Inc U.S.A. .% .% Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited India .% .% New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited India .% .% Aquasail Distribution Company Private Limited India .% .% th #	Entities have been treated as Joint Ventures even though the Group holds more than half of the voting power in these entities as it does not have
unilateral control over the investee, primarily due to existence of agreements that give the substantive rights to other investors.
**	As per agreement with other shareholders, the economic interest of Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited and Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari
is %.
^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from joint venture to subsidiary. ^^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to joint venture. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates (contd.)
Interests in Associates:
The Group’s interests in associates are:
Proportion of ownership
Place of
interest
Incorporation and
Place of Operation
As at 31st March, Name of the Entity Tech Mahindra Limited
PF Holdings B.V. India .% .% Netherlands .% .% Swaraj Engines Limited (upto September, ) ^^ India — .% Shiga Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Kagawa Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Okanetsu Industry Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Kitaiwate Ryono Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Aizu Ryono Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Joban Ryono Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% FukuryoKiki Hanbai Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Ibaraki Ryono Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Kotobuki Noki Co, Ltd. Japan .% .% Honda Seisakusyo, Inc. Japan .% .% Yamaichi Honten Co., Ltd. Japan .% .% Resson Aerospace Corporation # Canada .% .% Kumsan Dokum Mazelmeri A.S. Turkey .% .% HDG-Asia Ltd (upto April, ) Netherlands — .% Mahindra Finance USA LLC U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited # * India .% .% CIE Automotive S.A. # Spain .% .% India .% .% India .% — th th Mahindra Knowledge Park Mohali Limited
AMIP Industrial Parks Private Limited (w.e.f October, )
th Kiinteistö Oy Seniori-Saimaa Finland .% .% Great Rocksport Private Limited (w.e.f. 16th April, ) India .% — ZipZap Logistics Private Limited (w.e.f 8th April, ) India .% — ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited India .% .% Brainbees Solutions Private Limited # India .% .% PSL Media & Communications Limited India .% .% The East India Company Group Limited BVI # Singapore .% .% Medwell Ventures Private Limited India .% .% The financial statements of the Associates are drawn upto 31st March, other than for CIE Automotive S.A. and Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
where it is upto 31st December, .
#	Entities have been treated as Associate even though the Group holds less than % of the voting power in these entities as it has influence over
the entity due to the board representation.
^^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from associate to subsidiary. * Post 31st March, , the Company has sold its entire shareholding in Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited All of the above associates/Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in consolidated financial statements. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates (contd.)
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s material associate is set out below
Rupees crores
Particulars Tech Mahindra Limited Consolidated ,. ,. Other assets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total current assets.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total Non-current assets....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Current liabilities
Financial liabilities....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Other Liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total current liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total Non-current liabilities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Non-controlling interest......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Revenue from Operations..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Interest Income............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Depreciation and amortisation.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Impairment of Goodwill and non-current assets.................................................................................................................................................................................. . — Interest Cost................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Income tax expense.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Profit /(Loss) for the year..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year.............................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total Other Comprehensive Income for the year................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Tech Mahindra Limited’s Principal Activity - Information Technology (IT) and IT Enabled Services Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the associate recognised in the consolidated
financial statements:
Rupees crores
Particulars Tech Mahindra Limited Consolidated Closing Net assets..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Group’s share in %.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Group’s share (Rs)...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Goodwill............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Carrying amount......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Market Value.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Related party disclosures
(a) Names of related parties where transactions have taken place during the year: (i) Associates:
Sr. No. Name of the entity (ii) Tech Mahindra Limited
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
CIE Automotive, S.A.
Swaraj Engines Limited (upto 27th September, )
Mahindra Finance USA, LLC
PF Holdings B.V.
Pininfarina S.p.A.
Mahindra Educational Institutions
Satyam Venture Engineering Services Private Limited
Tech Mahindra (Shanghai) Co. Limited
Tech Mahindra Foundation
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited
PSL Media & Communications Limited
Kumsan Dokum Mazelmeri A.S.
Comviva Technologies Limited
Pininfarina Engineering S.R.L
Golde Pune Automotive India, Pvt Ltd.
Participaciones Internacionales Autometal Dos S.L.
Born Commerce Private Limited
Tech Mahindra (Americas) Inc. Medwell Ventures Private Limited
Golde Wuhan Co., Ltd
Kiinteistö Oy Seniori-Saimaa
ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited
Shiga Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.
Kagawa Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.
Okanetsu Industry Co., Ltd.
Kitaiwate Ryono Co., Ltd.
Aizu Ryono Co, Ltd.
Joban Ryono Co., Ltd.
Fukuryo Kiki Hanbai Co., Ltd.
Ibaraki Ryono Co., Ltd.
Yamaichi Honten Co., Ltd.
Tech Mahindra Business Services Limited
Aurangabad Electricals, Ltd
Golde Bengaluru India Private Limited
Great Rocksport Private Limited (w.e.f. 16th April, )
Mahindra University
ZipZap Logistics Private Limited (w.e.f. 8th April, ) Joint Ventures: Sr. No. Name of the entity Sr. No. Name of the entity Classic Legends Private Limited
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (upto 28th March, )
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private
Limited)
Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited
Mahindra World City Developers Limited
Gippsaero Pty. Limited (upto 28th March, )
Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited
(upto 28th March, )
Sampo Algeria Spa (w.e.f. 22nd July, )
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited
Sampo-Rosenlew Oy (upto 21st July, )
M.I.T.R.A. Agro Equipments Private Limited
(upto 16th March, )
Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private Limited
Mahindra Homes Private Limited
Transtech Logistics Private Limited
Aquasail Distribution Company Private Limited
Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (upto 28th March )
Mahindra Susten Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, )
Tropiikin Rantasauna Oy Sr. No. Name of the entity Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited
Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited (upto 16th June, ) Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited
Zoomcar India Private Limited
Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited
Mahindra-BT Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited Jinan Qingqi Peugeot Motocycles Co Ltd (upto 31st January, )
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited
Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited
Carnot Technologies Private Limited Marvel Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, )
Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited
Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private Limited
Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, )
Martial Solren Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, )
Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, ) COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Related party disclosures (contd.)
(a) Names of related parties where transactions have taken place during the year: (contd.) (iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP):
Sr. No. Name of KMP Designation Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Chairman Dr. Anish Shah Managing Director and CEO Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) Dr. Vishakha N. Desai Independent Director Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Independent Director Mr. T. N. Manoharan Independent Director Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Independent Director Mrs. Shikha Sharma Independent Director Mr. C. P. Gurnani Non-Executive Non-Independent Director Ms. Nisaba Godrej Independent Director Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Independent Director Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma Nominee Director (iv) Close member of KMP and entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP:
Sr. No. Close member of KMP Sr. No. Close member of KMP Mrs. Anuradha Mahindra Mrs. Vasundhara Modi Mrs. Radhika Nath Mrs. Veena Jejurikar Dr. T. N. Gajendran Sr. No. Entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP The Indian & Eastern Engineer Company Private Limited Araku Originals Private Limited Harulika Ventures LLP (v) Entity belonging to Promoter/Promoter Group holding % or more in the company: Sr. No. Name of the Company Prudential Management & Services Private Limited
(vi) Welfare Funds/Post-employment benefit plans: Sr. No. Name of the Funds Sr. No. Name of the Funds M&M Employees' Welfare Fund Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Gratuity Scheme M&M Employees' Welfare Fund Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff Provident Fund M&M Employees' Welfare Fund Mahindra And Mahindra Limited Staff & Workmen's Superannuation
Scheme Mahindra World School Education Trust Mahindra And Mahindra Limited Superannuation Scheme MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b) The related party transactions are as under:
Rupees crores Sr.
No. Nature of Transactions . Purchases:
Goods............................................................. Property, plant & equipment
and Intangible assets.......................... Services........................................................ . Property, plant and equipment.... Services........................................................ Proceeds from sale of shares...... Proceeds from capital
reduction/buyback of shares......... KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP ,. . — — — — ,. . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — — * — — — — . * — — — — . . . — — — . . — . — . . . . — — — . . — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — Management contracts including
deputation of personnel:
From parties.............................................. To parties.................................................... . Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries Investments:
Purchases/subscribed/
conversion.................................................. . Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Sales:
Goods............................................................. . Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the company For the Year
Ended March Managerial remuneration................. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Sr.
No. Nature of Transactions . Stock options................................................... . .
. Commission and other benefits
to non-executive/independent
directors (including nominee
directors) **........................................................
Others (sitting fees) #....................... Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the company For the Year
Ended March Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . . — — . — . . — — . — — — — — — . . — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — . . — . — — . — — — — — . . — . — — . — — — — — ,. — — — — — ,. — — — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — . . — . — — . . — — — — ,. . — — — — ,. . — — — — Finance:
Inter corporate deposits/loan
given...............................................................
Inter Corporate Deposits/loan
refunded by parties.............................
Debenture redeemed by related
parties...........................................................
Debenture redeemed to related
parties...........................................................
Inter corporate deposits /loan
taken..............................................................
Inter corporate deposits /loan
refunded......................................................
Invoice Discounting..............................
Interest income.......................................
Interest expense....................................
Dividend received.................................... MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Sr.
No. Nature of Transactions Dividend distributed............................... Share application money given... . . . Guarantees and collaterals
given (transactions during the
year)................................................................ Guarantees and collaterals
taken(transactions during the
year)................................................................ Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP — — . . . . — — . . . . — — — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — . . — . — — . . — * — — . . — . — . . — — . — . . . — . — . . . . . — . . . — — — — . . — — — — . . * . — — . . . . — — . . — — — . . . . . — . — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — Other Transactions:
Other income........................................... Other expenses....................................... Reimbursements received from
parties........................................................... Reimbursements made to
parties........................................................... . Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the company For the Year
Ended March Outstandings:
Trade and other payable..................
Trade and other receivables.............
Debentures/preference shares
issued by parties....................................
Debentures issued to parties............. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores Sr.
No. Nature of Transactions Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP — . . — — — — . — — — — . . — . — — . . — — — — . — — — — — . . — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — . . — — — — Inter corporate deposits given....
Inter corporate deposits /loan
taken..............................................................
.
. Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the company For the Year
Ended March Security deposit paid..........................
Advances given...........................................
Guarantees given outstanding * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. # In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme ** includes sitting fees and commission paid/payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a partner. . Segment information
Operating Segments The reportable segments of the Group are Automotive, Farm Equipment, Financial Services, Real Estate, Hospitality and Others. The segments are largely
organised and managed separately according to the organisation structure that is designed based on the nature of products and services and profile
of customers. Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Description of the each of the reportable segments is as under:
Automotive: This segment comprises of sale of automobiles, spares, mobility solutions, construction equipments and related services.
Farm Equipment: This segment comprises of sale of tractors, implements, spares and related services. 
Financial Services: This segment comprises of offering financial products ranging from retail and other loans, SME finance, housing finance, mutual funds
and life and non-life insurance broking services.
Real Estate: This segment comprises of projects, project management & development and operating of commercial complexes.
Hospitality: This segment comprises of sale of timeshare and vacation ownership. 
Others: This segment mainly comprises of IT Services, after-market, defence, steel trading and processing, logistics, solar, powerol, agri business,
two-wheelers, etc. The Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates the companies performance and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance
indicators by operating segments. The CODM reviews revenue and gross profit as the performance indicator for all of the operating segments. The measurement of each segment’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities is consistent with the accounting policies that are used in preparation of
the consolidated financial statements. Segment result represents the profit before interest and tax without allocation of central administration costs,
share of profit /(loss) of associates and joint ventures. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Segment Information (contd.)
Information regarding the Group’s reportable segments is presented below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Automotive Farm
Equipment Financial
Services Real Estate Hospitality Others Total Eliminations Consolidated
Total ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,,. — ,,. Revenue
External Revenue........................................................ ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,. — ,. Inter Segment Revenue.......................................... . . — . . ,. ,. (,.) — . . — . . ,. ,. (,.) — Total Revenue............................................................. ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,,. ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,. (,.) ,. ,. ,. ,. (.) . . ,. . ,. ,. ,. ,. (.) . . ,. . ,. (.) (.) (.) — — (.) (,.) — (,.) (.) (.) — — — — (.) — (.) ,. ,. ,. (.) . . ,. . ,. ,. ,. ,. (.) . . ,. . ,. (,.) ,,. Result
Segment result before exceptional items.
Add/(less): Exceptional items allocated to
Segments..........................................................................
Segment result after exceptional items.....
Share of profit/(loss) of equity accounted
investees (net)............................................................... ,.
,. Reconciliation to Profit/(Loss) after tax
. Unallocable corporate income, net of
expenses...................................................................... .
. . Interest expenses not allocable to
segments..................................................................... (.)
(.) . Interest income not allocable to
segments..................................................................... .
. . Exceptional Items unallocable to
Segments.................................................................... ,.
. Profit before tax.......................................................... ,. Tax expense.................................................................... (,.) Profit after tax.............................................................. ,. ,.
(,.)
,.
Out of total external revenue above:- – From contract with customers
(as defined under Ind AS )....................... ,,. ,. – From financial services........................................ ,. ,. – Others.............................................................................. ,. . Total..................................................................................... ,,. ,. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Segment Information (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Automotive Farm
Equipment Financial
Services Real Estate Hospitality Others Total Eliminations Consolidated
Total ,. . . . . . ,. — ,. ,. . . . . . ,. — ,. Impairment expense................................................... . . . — — . ,. — ,. . . — — — — . — . Additions to non-current assets........................ ,. . . . . ,. ,. — ,. ,. . . . . ,. ,. — ,. Other information:
Depreciation and Amortisation expense...... Notes:
(i)	Additions to non-current assets comprises of capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including those under
development and capital advances.
(ii)	Figures in the above table for the current financial year have been presented in bold. Comparatives for each item have been presented below the
respective current year figures.
Segment assets and liabilities Rupees crores Particulars Automotive Farm
Equipment Financial
Services Real Estate Hospitality Others Total Eliminations Consolidated
Total Segment Assets............................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Segment Liabilities..................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,,. — — ,,. ,,. — ,,. ,,. — ,,.
,,. Reconciliation of segment assets to total
assets:
Segment Assets............................................................ ,,.
,,. Unallocable Assets..................................................... ,.
,. Total Assets.................................................................. ,,.
,,. Unallocable Assets primarily comprise of equity accounted investment in associates and joint ventures, other investments, income tax assets, deferred tax assets.
Reconciliation of segment liabilities to
total liabilities:
Segment Liabilities..................................................... ,,.
,,. Unallocable Liabilities............................................... ,. Total Liabilities........................................................... ,,. ,. ,,. Unallocable Liabilities primarily comprise of borrowings (excluding related to Financial Services Segment) and deferred tax liability.
Revenue from type of products and services
The operating segments are primarily based on nature of products and services and hence the Revenue from external customers of each segment is
representative of revenue based on products and services. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Segment Information (contd.)
Geographical information
The Group operates in principal geographical areas – India (country of domicile), and Overseas. The Group’s revenue from operations from external customers
and information about its non-current assets by geographical location are detailed below:
Rupees crores
Particulars For the year Ended 31st March, Revenue
from
contract with
customers Other
revenue Total
external
revenue NonCurrent
assets NonCurrent
assets ,,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. . ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,. ,,. ,. ,,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Revenue
from
contract with
customers Other Total external
revenue
revenue India .................................................................................. ,. ,. Overseas.......................................................................... ,. Total................................................................................... As at 31st March, The revenue information above is based on the location of the customer. The non-current assets in the above table represent Property, plant
and equipment, Capital work-in-progress, Goodwill, Other intangible assets, Intangibles under development, Income tax assets (Net) and Other
non-current assets (Non-financial).
Information about major customers
During the year ended 31st March, and respectively, revenues from transactions with a single external customer did not amount
to per cent or more of the Group’s revenues from external customers.
. Employee Stock Option Plan
The Company has allotted ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each, ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each, ,,, Ordinary (Equity)
Shares of Rs. each, ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each and ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each in the years ended 31st March,
, 31st March, , 31st March, , 31st March, and 31st March, respectively to the Mahindra & Mahindra Employees’ Stock Option Trust
(“M&M ESOP Trust”) set up by the Company. The Trust holds these shares for the benefit of the employees and issues them to the eligible employees as per
the recommendations of the Compensation Committee.
Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - (“ Scheme”) vest in equal instalments on the expiry of months, months, months and months from the date of grant. The options may be exercised on any day over a period of five years from the date
of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a minimum of or number of options vested whichever is lower.
Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - (“ Scheme”) vest in
i) equal instalments on the expiry of months, months, months, months and months or ii) equal instalments on the expiry of months, months, months, months and months or iii)	 instalments bifurcated as % on the expiry of months, % on the expiry of months, % on the expiry of months and % on the expiry
of months or
iv)	 equal instalments on the expiry of months, months, months and months or
v)	 instalments bifurcated as .% on the expiry of months, .% on the expiry of months and .% on the expiry of months or
vi)	 instalments bifurcated as % on the expiry of months and % on the expiry of months or
vii)	 instalments bifurcated as % on the expiry of months and % on the expiry of months or
The exercise period of above options range from year to years from the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a minimum
of or number of options vested whichever is lower. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Employee Stock Option Plan (contd.)
Summary of stock options Particulars No. of stock options Weighted average exercise
price (Rs.) Options outstanding on 1st April, ...................................................................................................................... ,, . Options granted during the year .................................................................................................................................. ,, . Options forfeited/lapsed during the year ............................................................................................................... ,, . Options exercised during the year .............................................................................................................................. ,, . Options outstanding on 31st March, ............................................................................................................... ,, . Options vested but not exercised on March, ................................................................................ ,, . st Average share price on the date of exercise of the options are as under:
Date of exercise Weighted average share price
(Rs.) 01st April, to 21st March, ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. Information in respect of options outstanding as at 31st March, Range of exercise price Number of options Weighted average
remaining life Rs. .............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,, . years Rs. .............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,, . years No. of years vesting Fair value per options years Rs. . The fair values of options granted during the year are as follows:
Grant Date May, th August, years Rs. . 10th November, years Rs. . 10th February, years Rs. . * 23rd February, - years Rs. . th The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Options Pricing Model and the significant assumptions made in this regard are as follows:
Particulars Risk free interest rate (%)..................................................................... Grant dated
27th May, ( years
vesting) 04th August, ( years
vesting) 10th November, ( years
vesting) 10th February, ( years
vesting) * 23rd February, ( - years
vesting) .% .% .% .% .% - .%
. - . Years Expected life (in years)............................................................................ years years Years Years Expected volatility (%)............................................................................. .% .% .% .% .% - .% Expected dividend yield (%)................................................................. .% .% .% .% .% Exercise Price (Rs.)...................................................................................... Stock Price (Rs.)............................................................................................ . . . . . * pursuant to MEML merger MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Contingent Liability & Commitments
(A) Contingent Liability: (a) Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts comprise of: (i)	Excise Duty, Sales Tax, and Service Tax claims disputed by the Group relating to issues of applicability and classification aggregating
Rs. ,. crores before tax (: Rs. ,. crores before tax). (ii)	Other matters (excluding claims where amounts are not ascertainable): Rs. . crores before tax (: Rs. . crores
before tax). Taxation matters: (b) (i)	Demands against the Group not acknowledged as debts and not provided for, relating to issues of deductibility and taxability in respect
of which the Group is in appeal and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed: – Income-tax: Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores). (ii)	Items in respect of which the Group has succeeded in appeal, but the Income-tax Department is pursuing/likely to pursue in appeal/
reference and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed:
– Income-tax matters: Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). (c)	In respect of (a) & (b) above, it is not practicable for the Group to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of cash
flows, if any. (B) Commitments: The estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for as at 31st March, is Rs. ,. crores
(: Rs. ,. crores) and other commitment as at 31st March, is Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores).
. Research and Development expenditure
In recognised Research and Development units: Debited to the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Group, aggregate
Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores).
. Regulatory order A subsidiary of the Company has received an order (‘the Order’) from National Financial Reporting Authority (‘NFRA’) on 29th March, wherein
NFRA has made certain observations on identification of operating segments by the subsidiary in compliance with requirements of Ind AS and the
Subsidiary’s existing accounting policy for recognition of revenue on straight-line basis over the membership period. The Subsidiary is in the process of
conducting the review as required by the Order. As at 31st March, , the management of the subsidiary has assessed the application of its accounting policies relating to segment disclosures and
revenue recognition. Basis the current assessment by the subsidiary after considering the information available as on date, the existing accounting
policies, practices and disclosures are in compliance with the respective Ind AS and accordingly have been applied by the subsidiary in the preparation
of its financial statements. COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of Profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount .% ,. .% ,. .% (.) .% ,. Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited .% . .% . -.% . .% . NBS International Limited .% . .% . -.% . .% . Gromax Agri Equipment Limited .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Mahindra Fruits Private Limited .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra HZPC Private Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Kota Farm Services Limited .% (.) .% — .% — .% — Bristlecone India Limited .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited (Consolidated) .% ,. .% ,. .% (.) .% ,. Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly
known as Mahindra Intertrade
Limited) (Consolidated) .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra Consulting Engineers
Limited (upto 16th March, ) .% — .% . -.% . .% . Mahindra Lifespace Developers
Limited (Consolidated) .% ,. .% . -.% . .% . Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited -.% (.) .% . -.% . .% . Mahindra Hotels and Residences India
Limited .% (.) -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Gables Promoters Private Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited ESOP Trust .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Holdings Limited .% ,. .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Namaste Limited (upto
16th March, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . PARENT
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited
SUBSIDIARIES
Indian MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of Profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Mahindra Integrated Business
Solutions Private Limited .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra Susten Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Teqo Private Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Renewables Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Mega Suryaurja Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Neo Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Astra Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited .% . .% . -.% . .% . Mahindra Defence Systems Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Mahindra eMarket Limited .% (.) .% (.) .% — .% (.) M & M Benefit Trust .% ,. .% . .% — .% . Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust .% . .% . .% — .% . Sunrise Initiatives Trust .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Mahindra Construction Company
Limited -.% (.) .% . .% — .% . Officemartindia.com Limited .% (.) .% — .% — .% — Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Trringo.com Limited .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Airways Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Mahindra Consulting Engineers
Limited ESOP Trust
(upto 16th March, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Logistics Limited
(Consolidated) .% . .% . -.% . .% . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of Profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Mahindra Waste to Energy Solutions
Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Mahindra Telecom Energy
Management Services Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Martial Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Solarize Private Limited .% . .% . -.% . .% . Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private
Limited (upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Merakisan Private Limited
(upto 7th September, ) .% — .% — .% — .% — Swaraj Engines Limited
(w.e.f. 28th September, ) .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra Telephonics Integrated
Systems Limited
(w.e.f. 17th June, ) .% . .% . .% — .% . M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited (w.e.f. 17th March, ) .% . .% — .% — .% — Emergent Solren Private Limited
(w.e.f 9th November, ) .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
(w.e.f. 25th October, ) .% ,. -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Guestline Hospitality Management
and Development Services Limited
(w.e.f 2nd December, ) .% . .% . .% — .% . Resurgence Solarize Urja Private
Limited (w.e.f. 29th August, ) .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Holidays & Resorts
Harihareshwar Limited
(w.e.f. 23rd August, ) .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited
(Consolidated) (w.e.f. 29th March
) .% . .% — .% — .% — Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty.
Limited .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra Europe S.r.l. .% . .% . -.% . .% . Foreign MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of Profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Mahindra & Mahindra South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc.
(upto 21st October, ) .% — .% . .% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra USA Inc. -.% (.) .% . .% (.) .% . Bristlecone Limited -.% (.) .% (.) .% (.) -.% (.) Bristlecone Inc. .% . .% . -.% . .% . Bristlecone Consulting Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Bristlecone International AG .% . .% . -.% . .% . Bristlecone UK Limited .% . .% . -.% . .% . Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. .% . .% . -.% . .% . Bristlecone Singapore Pte. Limited .% . .% . -.% . .% . Bristlecone GmbH .% . .% . -.% . .% . Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica
Limited .% . .% — .% — .% — Heritage Bird (M) Sdn Bhd .% . .% . .% — .% . MH Boutique Hospitality Limited -.% (.) .% (.) .% — .% (.) Infinity Hospitality Group Company
Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited -.% (.) -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Covington S.à r.l .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Arabian Dreams Hotel Apartments
LLC .% . .% . -.% . .% . Holiday Club Resort Oy
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . .% . Mahindra Overseas Investment
Company (Mauritius) Limited -.% (.) -.% (.) .% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring
FZ-LLC (Consolidated) .% . .% . -.% . .% . Mahindra Racing UK Limited .% . .% . -.% . .% . COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of Profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe
Holdings S.a r.l .% (.) -.% (.) .% (.) -.% (.) Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.
(Consolidated) (upto 31st January,
) .% — -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural
Machinery Co. Ltd (Consolidated) .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra West Africa Ltd
(Liquidated on 4th January, ) .% — .% — .% (.) .% (.) Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L
(Under Liquidation) -.% (.) .% — .% (.) -.% (.) Bristlecone Middle East DMCC .% . .% . -.% . .% . Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda .% . .% . -.% . .% . OFD Holding BV (Consolidated)
(upto 20th April, ) .% — .% — .% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra Automotive North America
Inc. (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Erkunt Sanayi A.S. .% . .% . .% (.) -.% (.) Erkunt Traktor Sanayii A.S .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution
Holding Company (Europe) B.V.
(Liquidated on 28th February, ) .% — .% . .% (.) .% . Automobili Pininfarina GmbH
(Consolidated) -.% (.) -.% (.) .% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra Automotive Mauritius
Limited -.% (.) -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited
(Liquidated on 14th March, ) .% — .% (.) .% — .% (.) MSPL International DMCC
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% (.) -.% . .% . Sampo Rosenlew Oy
(w.e.f. 22nd July, ) .% . -.% (.) .% (.) -.% (.) .% — .% . .% — .% . Associates (Investment as per the
equity method)
Indian
Swaraj Engines Limited
(upto 27th September, ) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of Profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Tech Mahindra Limited (Consolidated) .% ,. .% ,. -.% . .% ,. Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . .% . PSL Media & Communications Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Brainbees Solutions Private Limited
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Medwell Ventures Private Limited
(Consolidated) .% . .% — .% — .% — ReNew Sunlight Energy Private
Limited .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Great Rocksport Private Limited
(w.e.f. 16th April, ) .% . .% . -.% . .% . CIE Automotive S.A. (Consolidated) .% . .% . -.% . .% . PF Holdings B.V. (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Resson Aerospace Corporation .% . -.% (.) -.% . .% . The East India Company Group Ltd
BVI (Consolidated) .% — .% — .% — .% — Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing
India Private Limited (formerly known
as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel
Private Limited) .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) Mahindra Aerospace Pvt Limited
(Consolidated)
(upto 28th March, ) .% — -.% (.) .% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra Susten Private Limited
(w.e.f 23rd December, ) .% ,. .% . -.% . .% . Mahindra Telephonics Integrated
Systems Limited
(upto 16th June, ) .% — .% — .% — .% — Foreign Joint Ventures (Investment as per
the equity method)
Indian COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of Profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Classic Legends Private Limited
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% . -.% (.) M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited (upto 16th March, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Carnot Technologies Private Limited .% . .% . .% (.) .% . Smartshift Logistics Solution Private
Limited (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Marvel Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, ) .% — .% — .% — .% — Aquasail Distribution Company
Private Limited .% . .% — .% — .% — New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited
(Consolidated) .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra-BT Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited .% . .% . .% (.) -.% (.) Sampo Rosenlew Oy
(upto 21st July, ) .% — -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Zoomcar Inc. (Consolidated) .% — .% — .% — .% — Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited .% . -.% (.) .% (.) -.% (.) Non controlling Interest -.% (,.) -.% (,.) -.% . -.% (,.) Consolidation adjustments and
Inter Company Eliminations -.% (,.) .% ,. -.% . .% ,. Total .% ,. .% ,. .% (.) .% ,. Foreign MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Transaction with Struck off Companies
Rupees crores Name of the Struck of Company Receivables Payables Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Argus Media Private Limited — * — — — Asmita Fire Safety Private Limited * — — — — Babace Pneumatics Private Limited — * — — — Badri Sarraf Finance And Mutual Benefit Company Limited — — — — Baux Arch Tech Private Limited — * — — — Beauty Xl India Private Limited * — — — — Bkg Securities Limited — — — — C Cube Sports Private Limited — . — — — . — — — — * — — — — Chowdhary Motors Private Limited
Country Inn & Suites By Carlson (A U)
Diamond Automobiles Private Limited — . — — — Dimension Data India Private Limited — . — — — Dimensions Engineering Technologies Private Limited — — — * — Dreams Comtrade Private Limited — — — — East West Power Genset Private Limited — * — — — Elegant Finvest Private Limited — — — — Enffluence Technologies Limited — . — — — Frontline Corporate Finance Limited — — , — — Garlick Designing And Consultancy Private Limited — — — — Greenair Engg. Solutions Private Limited * — — — — H.K. Exports Private Limited — — — — Hanaro Hospitality Private Limited — * — — — Hbn Homes Colonisers Private Limited * — — — — Heeraraj R&D And Automations Private Limited * — — * — . — — — — * — — — — High Calibre Cnc Centre Private Limited
Horizon Staffing And Technical Solutions Private Limited
Horizon Staffing Solutions Private Limited * — — — — Hudson Engineering Industries Private Limited — — , — — Jagat Trading Enterprises Limited — — — — Jaipal Consultancy Private Limited — — — — Janardana Investments Private Limited — — — — Joseph Cardijn Auto Services Private Limited * * — — — K S Furniture Makers Private Limited — . — — — Kamla Landmarc Cars Private Limited — * — — — Leela Trade Link Private Limited * — — — — Lektronix India Private Limited * — — — — Loni Corporate Training Private Limited — — — * — COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores Name of the Struck of Company Receivables Payables Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Magnate Leasing And Finance Private Limited — — — — Maptronicz Technologies Private Limited — * — — — Midwest Mutual Fund Limited — — — — . — — — — Nttf Industries Private Limited * — — — — Oxford Automotive Private Limited * — — — — Pals Specalised Tooling System Private Limited — — — * — Popular Stock And Share Services Private Limited — — , — — Positive Leasing And Finance Private Limited — — , — — Purushothama Investments Private Limited — — — — . — — — . Rajpal Control Systems Private Limited — — — — Ray Shield Technology Private Limited — . — — — Right View Audio Visual Private Limited — * — — — Rishiroop Polymers Pvt. Ltd. (Trnsfr) — — , — — . — — — — Rofin Baasel Laser India Private Limited * — — — — S J N Industries * — — — — Safna Consultancy Private Limited — — — — Sahil Genset Sales Private Limited — * — — — Sartaj Mega Project India Private Limited * * — — — Serene Paints & Colors Private Limited — . — — — Shalaka Technologies Private Limited — . — — — Shivraj Oils Private Limited — — — * — Sincere Securities Private Limited — — — — Sindhudurg Investments Private Limited — — — — Sirius Transtech Private Limited — . — — — Suviron Products Private Limited — — — — . — — — — The India Sugar Agencies Private Limited — — — — Think Creative Communications Private Limited — * — — — Ti Tsubamex Private Limited — . — — — Vennela And Venket Saai Projects India Private Limited * — — — — Versatile Options And Solutions Private Limited — . — — — Welcome Telecom Private Limited — * — — — Niche Events And Promotions Private Limited R.S. Ajit Singh & Co Robomatrix Automation & Solutions Private Limited Technosteel Commercial Kitchen Equipments Private Limited MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores Name of the Struck of Company Receivables Payables Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited
Elite Enterprises — — — . — Acme D' Ace Marketing Solutions — — — . * — — — — . Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited
Sanwaliya Motors Private Limited
Rampadarath Singh Motors Private Limited * — — — — . — — — — R. S. Ajit Singh & Co. (Automotives) Private Limited * — — — — Sivsakthi Automobiles Private Limited * — — — — Mud Flap Technologies Private Limited — — — — * Efcee Sarovar Portico * — — — — Keller Ground Engineering India Private Limited * — — — — Golden Tulip * — — — — . . — — — Oswal Denims * — — — — Ge Global Servicing Private Limited * — — — — G.S.T Corporation Limited * — — — — Dana India Private Limited * — — — — Adsare Hotels Private Limited * — — — — Ride Car Zone Private Limited * — — — — T.R. Travels Private Limited * — — — — M Y Transport Company Private Limited — . — — — Balaji Translogistic Private Limited — . — — — Fountainhead Lifestyle Private Limited — . — — — Shraddha Logistics Private Limited — . — — — Abc Legal Consultation — . — — — O-Links Technology Private Limited — * — — — Konect Infonet Private Limited — * — — — Shine Freight Systems India Private Limited — . — — — Jatayu Logistics Private Limited — * — — — Trimurty Tourism Private Limited — * — — — Purwanchal Tours And Travels Private Limited — * — — — Swiss Cabs India Private Limited — . — — — Gap Automodi Private Limited Mahindra Logistics Limited Sundharams Private Limited COMPANY
OVERVIEW BOARD’S
REPORT MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS . Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores Name of the Struck of Company S K S Automobiles India Private Limited Receivables Payables Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities — * — — — Sst Concierge Private Limited — * — — — Pace Micro Technology (India) Limited — — — — * Jayem Automotives Private Limited — — — — . Oxon Healthcare Services Private Limited — — — . — Loginext Solutions Private Limited — — — * — Prajapati Logistics Private Limited — — — . — . — — — — Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd.
Ashwani Enterprises Private Limited
Cocowings Enterprises Private Limited . — — — — Mansarovar India Aqua Beverages Private Limited . — — — — Sathesri Agro Products Private Limited . — — — — Brilliant Risie Private Limited . — — — — * — — — — Alcrooks And Cook Private Limited * — — — — Kiran Enviro-Tech Energy Private Limited Om Dhar Engineering Private Limited . — — — — Garhwal Aircon Services Private Limited . — — — — * — — — — . — — — — Igi Corporation Private Limited
Mra Refino Private Limited
GR Auditya Renewable Energies Private Limited . — — — — JCR Infrabuilt Private Limited . — — — — Novocon Solution Private Limited * — — — — Devine Devbuild Private Limited * — — — — Engineers Realty Private Limited * — — — — Puneeth Techno Projects Private Limited . — — — — Probus Infratech Private Limited . — — — — Atcom Infratech Private Limited . — — — — Goludev Infrastructure Private Limited . — — — — Ssng Business Private Limited * — — — — Navadhara Super Market Private Limited * — — — — Nirban Logistics Private Limited * — — — — Asvrj Logistic Private Limited . — — — — Spxpress Logistics Private Limited . — — — — Sltt India Private Limited . — — — — * — — — — Dharaa Mobility Private Limited
Auto World Private Limited
Ra Globalcity Housing Private Limited . — — — — * — — — — MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - . Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores Name of the Struck of Company Receivables Payables Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities * — — — — Arsh Buildwell Private Limited * — — — — Venhan Technologies Private Limited Ashi Infraprojects And Associates Private Limited . — — — — Sambodhi Tech Solutions Private Limited . — — — — Czone Engineers Private Limited . — — — — M/S. Ashwa Arts Private Limited . — — — — Console Cargo Logistics Services (I) Private Limited . — — — — Zafcon Engineering Private Limited . — — — — * — — — — Rama Tent House Private Limited . — — — — Millpond Human Resource Private Limited . — — — — Xperto Marketing Solution Private Limited Square Fitness Private Limited . — — — — Parvathi Life Sciences (OPC) Private Limited . — — — — Shiridi Srisai Solutions Private Limited . — — — — * — — — — . — — — — Devbhumi Aviation Private Limited
Vh Square Healthcare Private Limited
Shree Bio Crop India Private Limited * Liance Consultant & Engineers Private Limited — * — — — Dreams Broking Private Limited — — — — Unickon Fincap Private Limited — — — — Efcee Sarovar Portico Div Leela Tradelink Private Limited — * — — — Xtechone Internet Solutions Private Limited — * — — — Note:
* denotes amounts less than Rs. ,.
The above information is provided on basis of reasonable diligence done to ascertain relevant companies that have been struck off on the website of the
Ministry of Company Affairs.
. Previous year’s figures have been regrouped /reclassified where necessary. In terms of our report attached. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Membership No : Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - )
Mumbai, 26th May, Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited NBS International Limited Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty.
Limited Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited Mahindra Europe S.r.l. Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited Mahindra North American Technical
Center, Inc. Mahindra Automotive North America Inc. Mahindra Vehicle Sales and Service Inc. Automobili Pininfarina GmbH Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc. Gromax Agri Equipment Limited Trringo.com Limited Mahindra USA Inc. Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L € Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda Erkunt Traktor Sanayii A.S. # Erkunt Sanayi A.S. # Sampo Rosenlew Oy Swaraj Engines Limited Name of Subsidiary // // // // INR EUR TRY TRY BRL . . . ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . (.) (,.) (.) (.) (.) (,.) (.) (.) (.) . . . . (.) (.) . . . . . . . ,. . . . . . ,. . . . . . . ,. ,. Total
Assets . . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Total
Liabilities . . . . — — — — — — . — ,. — — — . — — . . Investments ,. . ,. ,. . — ,. * . . . . . . ,. . . . . . ,. Gross
Turnover ^ . (.) . . . — . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . (.) . . . . . . . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax . — . (.) . — . — . . . — — — . . . . — . . Provision
for Tax . (.) . . . — . (.) (.) * (.) (.) . (.) . . . . . (.) . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax . — — — — — — — — — — — — — .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% —
— .% .% .% .% .% . — — — . STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS // MXN USD //
// INR INR USD EUR USD . . . . . . . ,. . Reserves &
Surplus BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT // // // // // USD USD ZAR . . . . . . Share
Capital CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE // // // EUR INR AUD INR INR INR Exchange
rate MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS // // // // // // Reporting
currency Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## BOARD’S
REPORT Sr.
No. Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon Rupees crores COMPANY
OVERVIEW The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (contd.) Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section () of section read with rule of Companies (Accounts) Rules, Statement Containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries/associate companies /joint ventures as included in the Consolidated Financial Statements FORM AOC- CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS // Carnot Technologies Private Limited M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services
Limited Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Mahindra Manulife Investment
Management Private Limited Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private
Limited Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited Mahindra Finance CSR foundation Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited Mahindra Infrastructure Developers
Limited Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited Knowledge Township Limited Industrial Township (Maharashtra)
Limited Anthurium Developers Limited Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited Mahindra Water Utilities Limited Mahindra World City Developers Limited Mahindra World City Jaipur Limited Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR LKR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR Reporting
currency Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (contd.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange
rate . . Reserves &
Surplus . . Total
Assets . . Total
Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . . . (.) . . . (.) . (.) . (.) . ,. . . . (.) ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . ,. ,.
. . . . . ,. . . . . . ,. . . ,. ,. ,. . . Share
Capital . . — — . . — . — — — . . . — . . . . . . . . . . . . . — . . . . . . . ,. . ,. ,. — — Investments Gross
Turnover ^ . (.) . . . . * . (.) . . . (.) . . (.) . . ,. . . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax . — . (.) . . — . — . . (.) — . . — . . . . (.) Provision
for Tax . (.) . . . . * . (.) . . . (.) . . (.) . . ,. . . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — . . — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - // Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited Mahindra Knowledge Park Mohali Limited // // Mahindra Homes Private Limited Deep Mangal Developers Private Ltd Moonshine Construction Private Ltd Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited Mahindra Hotels and Residences India
Limited Gables Promoters Private Limited Heritage Bird (M) Sdn. Bhd. Infinity Hospitality Group Company
Limited MH Boutique Hospitality Limited MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited Covington S.a.r.l. Guestline Hospitality Management and
Development Services Limited Mahindra Holidays & Resorts
Harihareshwar Limited Holiday Club Resort Oy Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt (formerly known as Supermarket Capri
Oy) Ownership Services Sweden Ab Are Villa AB Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre Holiday Club Sport and Spahotels AB Holiday Club Resort Rus LLC # Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L.U. // // // // // EUR RUB SEK SEK SEK SEK EUR .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (.) (.) . . . . . . (.) . . (.) (.) (.) . . (.) . (.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . . . . . Total
Liabilities . — — . — — — . — — . . . — — — — . — * — — . Investments — . . . — — . ,. — . . . — . . . — ,. — * — . . Gross
Turnover ^ (.) . . (.) * (.) (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) . . (.) . (.) (.) * . . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax * . — — — — — — — . . — — — . — — . — — — . (.) Provision
for Tax (.) . . (.) * (.) (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) . . (.) . (.) (.) * . . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS // // EUR INR INR EUR EUR . . . . . . * (.) * . . Total
Assets BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT // // // THB THB MYR . . . . . (.) (.) . Reserves &
Surplus CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE // // // INR INR INR INR . * . . Share
Capital MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS // // // // INR . . . Exchange
rate Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## BOARD’S
REPORT // INR INR INR Reporting
currency Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon Rupees crores COMPANY
OVERVIEW // // Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (contd.) CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing
S.L.U. Holiday Club Canarias Resort
Management S.L.U. Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club
S.L.U. Classic Legends Private Limited BSA Company Limited The Birmingham Small Arms Company
Limited ** BSA Corporation Limited ** B.S.A. Motor Cycles Limited ** Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l. $ Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private
Limited Mahindra HZPC Private Limited Mahindra Fruits Private Limited Bristlecone Limited Bristlecone India Limited Bristlecone Consulting Limited Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn.Bhd Bristlecone International AG Bristlecone (UK) Limited Bristlecone Inc. Bristlecone Middle East DMCC Bristlecone GmbH Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. EUR AED USD GBP CHF MYR CAD INR USD INR INR INR INR INR INR EUR GBP GBP GBP GBP INR EUR EUR EUR Reporting
currency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange
rate . . . . . . * . . . . . . . . ,. * * * . . . . . Share
Capital . . . (.) . . . . . (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) (,.) — — — . (.) . . (.) Reserves &
Surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * * * . . . . . Total
Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . — — — . . . . . Total
Liabilities — — — — — — — . . — — — . — . . — — — * . . . . Investments . . . . . . . . . * . . . . . . — — — . . . . . Gross
Turnover ^ . . . . . . . . (.) (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) — — — (.) (.) . . (.) Profit/(Loss)
before Tax . — . — (.) — . . — — — — (.) — — . — — — — (.) . . (.) Provision
for Tax . . . . . . . . (.) (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) — — — (.) (.) . . (.) Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores Integrated Annual Report - // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (contd.) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. // Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica
Limited ** Mahindra-BT Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly
known as Mahindra Intertrade Limited) Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited ** Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited Mahindra Middleeast Electrical Steel
Service Centre (FZC) PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited //
// Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited Mahindra Racing UK Limited Mahindra Susten Private Limited Mahindra Renewables Private Limited Mahindra Teqo Private Limited Neo Solren Private Limited Marvel Solren Private Limited Astra Solren Private Limited Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private
Limited Mega Suryaurja Private Limited Martial Solren Private Limited ** Mahindra Solarize Private Limited MSPL International DMCC ¥ Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited // // INR AED INR INR INR INR INR INR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (.) . . (.) (.) . (.) .
. . . . . . . . . . (,.) (,.) . . . . . . . . . . . ,. ,. ,. (.) . . (.) . . . . . * ,. . . . . . ,. ,. . . ,. ,. . . . . . . ,. . . . — . . ,. . . . . . ,. ,. . . ,. . . . . . . . . . — . Total
Liabilities — — . — — — — — — — . . — — ,. ,. — — — — — — . . — — Investments — — . — . . . . . . . . . — . . . . . . — . ,. . — . Gross
Turnover ^ (.) * . (.) (.) . . . . . . . . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . . . — . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax — — (.) — (.) . . . . . . . — — . . * — — (.) * . (.) (.) . . . . . . . . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.)
. .
— . . — . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax . . . — . Provision
for Tax — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — . . — . . — — — .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS // // // // INR INR INR INR GBP EUR . . . . . . . . . . — . Total
Assets BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT // // // // // // USD INR INR . . . . . . . . . Reserves &
Surplus CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE // Mahindra Overseas Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited // Mahindra Holdings Limited IDR AED INR INR INR INR . . . Share
Capital MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS // // // // // USD USD . Exchange
rate Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## BOARD’S
REPORT // // SGD Reporting
currency Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon Rupees crores COMPANY
OVERVIEW // Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited // Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (contd.) CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS // // //
// Mahindra Telephonics Integrated
Systems Limited Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring
FZ-LLC Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordon, LLC. Mahindra First Choice Wheels Ltd Fifth Gear Ventures Limited Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions
Private Limited Mahindra eMarket Limited Mahindra Airways Limited Mahindra Logistics Limited x Logistics Private Limited Lords Freight (India) Private Limited MLL Express Services Private Limited
(formerly known as Meru Travel
Solutions Private Limited) MLL Mobility Private Limited (formerly
known as Meru Mobility Tech Private
Limited) V-Link Automotive Services Private
Limited V-Link Freight Services Private Limited MLL Global Logistics Limited $$ V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited // Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty
Limited GA8 Airvan Pty Limited $ AUD AUD INR INR INR GBP INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR JOD AED INR INR INR Reporting
currency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange
rate . . (.) (.) (.) (.) .
. (.) — (.) . . (.) . (.) . (.) (.) . . . . . (.) . (.) Reserves &
Surplus . — . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Share
Capital — . . . . — . . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . . ,. . Total
Assets — . . . . — . . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . . . . Total
Liabilities — — — . — — — — — . — — . — — . — . — . — . — Investments * . . . . — . . . . . . ,. . . . . ,. . . . . — Gross
Turnover ^ * (.) (.) . . — (.) * (.) (.) . (.) . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . (.) Profit/(Loss)
before Tax — — — — — — — — — (.) . (.) . — (.) . — * — — — . — Provision
for Tax * (.) (.) . . — (.) * (.) (.) . (.) . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . (.) Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — — — — — — — — — — — . — — . — — — — — . — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores Integrated Annual Report - // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // Mahindra Defence Systems Limited // Emergent Solren Private Limited Name of Subsidiary The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Sr.
No. Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (contd.) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Nomad TC Pty Limited $ Airvan Pty Limited $ Gippsaero Pty Limited Airvan Flight Services Pty Limited $ Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions
Limited Mahindra Telecom Energy Management
Services Limited Mahindra Construction Company Ltd // // // // INR INR INR AUD AUD AUD AUD AUD . . . . . . . . Exchange
rate . . . . . . . . Share
Capital (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Reserves &
Surplus . . . — . — — — Total
Assets . . . — . — — — Total
Liabilities — . — — — — — — Investments . . . * . * * * Gross
Turnover ^ . . (.) * (.) * * * Profit/(Loss)
before Tax . . (k)	Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta (l)	Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta (m)	Kiinteistö Oy Tiurunniemi
(n)	Kiinteistö Oy Kylpyläntorni (o)	Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts (p)	Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts (q)	Kiinteistö Oy Kuusamon Pulkkajärvi (r)	Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt (s)	Merakisan Private Limited
(t)	Mahindra Integrated Township Limited (b)	Origin Direct Asia Ltd. (c)	Origin Fruit Direct B.V. (d)	Origin Fruit Services South America SpA (e)	Origin Direct Asia (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. (f)	Kiinteistö Oy Himos Gardens (g)	Kiinteistö Oy Vanha Ykköstii (h)	Kiinteistö Oy Katinnurkka (i)	Kiinteistö Oy Tenetinlahti (j)	Kiinteistö Oy Mällösniemi (ad)	HCR Management Oy (ac)	Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited (ab)	PMTC Engineering SPA (aa)	Peugeot Motocycles Italia S.p.A. (ak)	SsangYong Australia Pty Limited (aj)	SY Auto Capital Co., LTD (ai)	Ssangyong European Parts Center B.V (ah)	Ssangyong Motor Company (ag)	Mahindra Namaste Limited (af)	Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS (z)	Peugeot Motocycles Deutschland GmbH (y)	Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (x)	Mahindra West Africa Limited (w)	Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (ae)	Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution Holding
Company (Europe) B.V. .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT (v)	Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc. (u)	Mahindra Residential Developers Limited — — — — — — — — CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE (a)	OFD Holding B.V. . . (.) * (.) * * * Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Names of subsidiaries which have ceased to exist during the year on account of Liquidation/ Sale/Merger through scheme of arrangement are as under : — — — — — — Provision
for Tax Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## BOARD’S
REPORT // // // // Reporting
currency Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon Rupees crores COMPANY
OVERVIEW Notes
* denotes amounts less than Rs. ,.
^ Gross turnover includes revenue from operations and other income
** denotes companies yet to commence operations
# denotes companies where reporting period is different from 1st April, to 31st March, . The financial year for all other subsidiaries is 1st April, to 31st March, € Under liquidation
¥ Under liquidation, financials are upto 18th January, $ Based on unaudited financial statements as audit is not required as per their local laws
$$ incorporated in current financial year and will prepare it’s first statutory accounts in next financial year
@ excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities/their holding companies but not allotted to employees
## There are no companies where voting power is different from ownership interests GA200 Pty Limited $ Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (contd.) CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Part “B” Details of Associates / Joint Ventures [as per Section () of the Companies Act, ]
Rupees crores
Name of Associates /Joint Ventures Audited
Balance
Sheet Date Date of
Acquisition No. of
Equity
shares held
†† Proportion
of
ownership
interest Cost of
Net worth
Investments attributable to
Shareholding
as per latest
audited
Balance Sheet Profit/(Loss) for the year
Considered in
Consolidation Not
considered in
consolidation Tech Mahindra Limited // // ,,, .% . ,. ,. ,. Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited // // ,,, .% . . (.) (.) Officemartindia.com Limited // // ,, .% — (.) — — Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited // // , .% . . . . Kota Farm Services Limited // // ,, .% . (.) * * Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural
Machinery co., Ltd. § // .% . . . . P.F. holding BV $ // ,,, .% . . (.) (.) Zoomcar Inc $ ≠ // ,,, .% — — — — Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private
Limited // // ,,, .% . . (.) (.) Mahindra Ideal Lanka Private Limited // // ,, .% . . (.) (.) Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India
Private Limited (formerly known as
Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private
Limited) // // ,, .% . . (.) (.) ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited // ,,, .% . . (.) (.) Brainbees Solutions Private Limited // ,,, .% . . (.) (.) ≠ Investment in Zoomcar Inc. is fully provided for impairment and hence loss for the period has not been considered in consolidation.
Notes:
There are no Associates or Joint ventures which are yet to commence operations.
* denotes amount less than Rs. , †† Including equity/preferred shares to be issued on conversion of participating Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares
$ Based on unaudited financial statements as audit is not required as per their local laws §	In addition to JPY750 million Common Stock (which represents .% of the Common stock), the Company owns the entire JPY , million “Class A” shares (shares with no voting rights); “Class A” shares have rights over dividend and liquidation on an equal basis with Common Stock. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - )
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - )
CP Gurnani (DIN - ) Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 26th May, “Dream about achieving
the impossible - because
impossible things do happen.”
KESHUB MAHINDRA October - April Registered Office: MAHINDRA &
MAHINDRA LIMITED
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai - www.mahindra.com