MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Notice
THE SEVENTY SEVENTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED will be held on Friday, the
4th day of August, 2023 at 3:00 p.m., Indian Standard Time
(IST), through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual
Means (“OAVM”) facility to transact the following businesses.

5.	
Re-appointment of Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, as a
Director liable to retire by rotation
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED that Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN:
00004695), who retires by rotation and being eligible
for re-appointment, be re-appointed as a Director of the
Company.”

The proceedings of the Seventy Seventh Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) shall be deemed to be conducted at the
Registered Office of the Company at Gateway Building, Apollo
Bunder, Mumbai – 400 001 which shall be the deemed venue
of the AGM.

SPECIAL BUSINESS
6.	Payment of Remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for the
Financial Year 2023-24

ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
Consideration and Adoption of the Audited
Standalone Financial Statements of the Company
for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023 and
the Reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors
thereon

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as a Special Resolution:
	“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of
Regulation 17(6)(ca) of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 [including any
statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) thereto or
re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force],
approval of the Company be accorded for payment of
remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: 00004695)
as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, for the
Financial Year 2023-24, as approved by the Members
at the Seventy-Fifth Annual General Meeting held on
6th August, 2021, being an amount exceeding fifty
percent of the total annual remuneration payable to
all the Non‑Executive Directors of the Company for the
Financial Year 2023-24.

To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	
“RESOLVED that the Audited Standalone Financial
Statements of the Company for the Financial Year
ended 31st March, 2023 and the Reports of the Board
of Directors and Auditors thereon, as circulated to the
Members, be considered and adopted.”
2.	
Consideration and Adoption of the Audited
Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company
for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023 and
the Report of the Auditors thereon
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

	FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to do all such acts,
deeds, matters and things and to take all such steps as
may be required in this connection including seeking all
necessary approvals to give effect to this Resolution and
to settle any questions, difficulties or doubts that may
arise in this regard.”

	
“RESOLVED that the Audited Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company for the Financial Year
ended 31st March, 2023 and the Report of the Auditors
thereon, as circulated to the Members, be considered
and adopted.”
3.

Declaration of Dividend on Ordinary (Equity) Shares
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

7.

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

	"RESOLVED that a Dividend of Rs. 16.25 (325%) per
Ordinary (Equity) Share of the face value of Rs. 5 each
for the year ended 31st March, 2023 on 124,35,28,831
Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company aggregating
Rs. 2,020.73 crores as recommended by the Board
of Directors be declared and that the said Dividend
be distributed out of the Profits for the year ended on
31st March, 2023."
4.

Ratification of Remuneration to Cost Auditors

	“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of section 148
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, 2014 [including any statutory modification(s) or
amendment(s) thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the
time being in force] and pursuant to the recommendation
of the Audit Committee, the remuneration payable to
Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants having Firm
Registration Number 000611, appointed by the Board of
Directors of the Company as Cost Auditors to conduct
the audit of the cost records of the Company for the
Financial Year ending 31st March, 2024, amounting
to Rs. 9,00,000 (Rupees Nine Lakhs only) (plus Goods
and Services Tax and reimbursement of out of pocket
expenses) be ratified.

Re-appointment of Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma, as a
Director liable to retire by rotation
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

	“RESOLVED
that
Mr.
Vijay
Kumar
Sharma
(DIN: 02449088), who retires by rotation and being
eligible for re-appointment, be re-appointed as a Director
of the Company.”

1

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

	FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to do all such acts,
deeds, matters and things and to take all such steps as
may be required in this connection including seeking all
necessary approvals to give effect to this Resolution and
to settle any questions, difficulties or doubts that may
arise in this regard.”

	FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to revise the basic
salary payable to the appointee within the above
mentioned scale of salary and decide on the performance
pay within 235% of the Annual Basic Salary as mentioned
above and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things
and to take all such steps as may be required in this
connection including seeking all necessary approvals to
give effect to this Resolution and to settle any questions,
difficulties or doubts that may arise in this regard.”

8.	
Revision in the terms of remuneration of
Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company

9.	Revision in the terms of remuneration of Mr. Rajesh
Jejurikar, Executive Director and CEO (Auto and
Farm Sector) of the Company

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as a Special Resolution:
	“RESOLVED that in partial modification of the Resolution
No. 8 passed by the Members at the Seventy-Fourth
Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 7th
August, 2020, for the appointment of Dr. Anish Shah
(DIN: 02719429) as the “Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer” with effect from 2nd April, 2021
to 31st March, 2025 (hereinafter referred to as the
appointee) on the terms and conditions of remuneration
mentioned therein and pursuant to the provisions
of sections 196, 197 and 198 read with Schedule V
and all other provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
(“the Act”), the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,
[including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s)
thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being
in force] and such other approvals, permissions and
sanctions, as may be required and subject to such
conditions and modifications, as may be prescribed or
imposed by any of the authorities while granting such
approvals, permissions and sanctions, approval of the
Company be accorded to the revision in the terms of
remuneration of the appointee by increasing the scale
of basic salary as Rs. 30,00,000 to Rs. 55,00,000 per
month with effect from 1st August, 2023 upto the
remainder period of the tenure of his appointment
i.e. 31st March, 2025 and by increasing the Performance
Pay which is based on his performance and performance
of the Company to an amount not exceeding 235%
of the Annual Basic Salary from the Financial Year
2022-23 to Financial Year 2024-25.

To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as a Special Resolution:
	“RESOLVED that in partial modification of the Resolution No.
10 passed by the Members at the Seventy-Fourth Annual
General Meeting of the Company held on 7th August, 2020
for the appointment of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (DIN: 00046823)
as Whole‑time Director of the Company designated as the
“Executive Director (Automotive and Farm Sectors)” with
effect from 1st April, 2020 to 31st March, 2025 on the terms
and conditions of remuneration mentioned therein and
pursuant to the provisions of sections 196, 197 and 198 read
with Schedule V and all other provisions of the Companies
Act, 2013 (“the Act”), the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014,
[including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s)
thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in
force] and such other approvals, permissions and sanctions,
as may be required and subject to such conditions and
modifications, as may be prescribed or imposed by any of
the authorities while granting such approvals, permissions
and sanctions, approval of the Company be accorded to the
revision in the terms of remuneration of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar,
currently designated as “Executive Director and CEO (Auto
and Farm Sector)” of the Company (hereinafter referred to
as the appointee) by increasing the scale of basic salary as
Rs. 26,00,000 to Rs. 48,00,000 per month with effect from
1st August, 2023 upto the remainder period of the tenure
of his appointment i.e. 31st March, 2025 and by increasing
the Performance Pay which is based on his performance and
performance of the Company to an amount not exceeding
235% of the Annual Basic Salary from the Financial Year
2022-23 to Financial Year 2024-25.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that except for the revision in the
scale of basic salary and the Performance Pay, all other
terms and conditions of appointment and remuneration,
as approved earlier by the Members, and which are not
dealt with in this Resolution, shall remain unchanged and
continue to be effective.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that except for the revision in the
scale of basic salary and Performance Pay, all other
terms and conditions of appointment and remuneration,
as approved earlier by the Members, and which are not
dealt with in this Resolution, shall remain unchanged and
continue to be effective.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that where in any financial year
during the currency of the tenure of the appointee,
the Company has no profits or its profits are
inadequate, the Company may pay to the appointee,
the remuneration as approved by the Members from
time to time, as the minimum remuneration by way of
salary, perquisites and other allowances, benefits and
Performance Pay, subject to receipt of the requisite
approvals, if any.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that where in any financial year
during the currency of the tenure of the appointee,
the Company has no profits or its profits are
inadequate, the Company may pay to the appointee,
the remuneration as approved by the Members from
time to time, as the minimum remuneration by way of
salary, perquisites and other allowances, benefits and
2

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Performance Pay, subject to receipt of the requisite
approvals, if any.

be to the account of the Company.'
	FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to do all such acts,
deeds, matters and things and to take all such steps as
may be required in this connection including seeking all
necessary approvals to give effect to this Resolution and
to settle any questions, difficulties or doubts that may
arise in this regard.”

	FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to revise the basic
salary payable to the appointee within the above
mentioned scale of salary and decide on the performance
pay within 235% of the Annual Basic Salary as mentioned
above and to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things
and to take all such steps as may be required in this
connection including seeking all necessary approvals to
give effect to this Resolution and to settle any questions,
difficulties or doubts that may arise in this regard.”

11.	
Approval for Material Related Party Transactions
between the Company and its Subsidiaries/ Associate
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

10.	
Amendment to the Articles of Association of the
Company

	"RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of
Regulation 23 of the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules
made thereunder and other applicable provisions, if any,
[including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s)
thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being
in force], the Company’s Policy on Materiality of and
Dealing with Related Party Transactions, and subject
to such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as may be
necessary from time to time and based on the approval/
recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board
of Directors of the Company, approval of the Members be
accorded to the Company to enter into/ continue with
the existing Material Related Party Transaction(s)/
Contract(s)/ Arrangement(s)/ Agreement(s) (whether by
way of an individual transaction or transactions taken
together or series of transactions or otherwise) falling
within the definition of ‘Related Party Transaction’ under
Regulation 2(1)(zc) of the Listing Regulations read with
the definition of ‘Related Party’ under Regulation 2(1)(zb)
of the Listing Regulations in the course of:

To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following
Resolution as a Special Resolution:
	"RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of
sections 5, 14 and other applicable provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 read with the relevant rules framed
thereunder and Regulation 23(6) of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of NonConvertible Securities) Regulations, 2021, [including
any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) thereto
or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force],
approval of the Company be accorded to amend the
Articles of Association of the Company by substituting the
existing Article 104 as follows:
	'In the event of any default committed by the Company
as mentioned in clause (e) of sub‑regulation (1) of
Regulation 15 of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993, the
debenture trustee shall have the right, to appoint one or
more Director or Directors [Nominee Director(s)] on the
Board of Directors of the Company, and to remove from
office any Nominee Director so appointed and to appoint
another in his/her place or in the place a Director so
appointed who resigns or otherwise vacates his office,
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies
Act, 2013 or any other applicable law, regulatory or
listing requirements and terms and conditions of such
debenture documents.

i)

Sale and purchase of any goods and material;

ii)

Availing / rendering of any services;

iii)	
Sharing or usage of each other’s resources and
reimbursement of expenses, licensing of technology
and intellectual property rights, receipt of royalty /
brand usage;
iv)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease
of business assets including property, plant and
equipment, Intangible assets, transfer of technology
to meet the business objectives and requirements;

	Any such appointment or removal shall be made in writing and
shall be served at the registered office of the Company.
	The Nominee Director(s) shall neither be required to hold
any qualification share nor be liable to retire by rotation.

v)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support
including equity / debt / Inter-corporate deposits
(ICD), convertible / non-convertible instruments /
Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans
provided and Interest, commission and other related
income / expenses;

	The Nominee Director(s) shall continue to hold office as long
as the default in relation to the debt subsists.
	The Nominee Director(s) may also be appointed as a member
of any Committee of the Board and shall not be liable for
any act or omission of the Company.

vi)	Any corporate action including receipt of dividends,
tendering securities as a part of buyback offer,
receipt of bonus securities, subscribing to rights
issue etc., by the Company that are uniformly
offered / applicable to all shareholders in proportion
to their shareholding;

	The Nominee Director shall be entitled to all the rights and
privileges of other non-executive directors and the sitting
fees, expenses as payable to other directors on the Board
and any other fees, commission, monies or remuneration in
any form payable to the non-executive directors, which shall
3

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

vii)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to
meet its objectives / requirements;

and as may be mutually agreed between the parties,
for each of the financial years (FY) from FY 2023-24
to FY 2027-28 i.e., five financial years, provided that
the said contract(s)/ arrangement(s)/ agreement(s) /
transaction(s) shall be carried out in the ordinary course
of business of the Company and at arm’s length basis.

	with Related Parties as detailed in the explanatory
statement to this Resolution, on such material terms
and conditions as mentioned therein and as may be
mutually agreed between the parties and the Company,
for each of the financial years (FY) from FY 2023-24
to FY 2027-28 i.e., five financial years, provided that
the said contract(s)/ arrangement(s)/ agreement(s)/
transaction(s) shall be carried out in the ordinary course
of business of the Company and at arm’s length basis.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of
the Company (including any Committee thereof) be
authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things
as it may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to
take all such steps as may be required to give effect to
this Resolution without being required to seek further
consent or approval of the Members or otherwise to
the end and intent that the Members shall be deemed
to have given their approval thereto expressly by the
authority of this Resolution.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the
Company (including any Committee thereof) be authorised
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may deem
fit at its absolute discretion and to take all such steps as
may be required in this connection including finalising and
executing necessary contract(s), scheme(s), agreement(s)
and such other documents as may be required, seeking all
necessary approvals to give effect to this Resolution, for
and on behalf of the Company and settling all such issues,
questions, difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise
and to take all such decisions with regard to the powers
herein conferred to, without being required to seek further
consent or approval of the Members or otherwise to the
end and intent that the Members shall be deemed to have
given their approval thereto expressly by the authority of
this Resolution.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that all actions taken by the Board
of Directors of the Company (including any Committee
thereof) in connection with any matter referred to or
contemplated in this Resolution, be approved, ratified
and confirmed in all respects.”
13. M
 aterial Modification of earlier approved Material
Related Party Transactions between the Company
and its Subsidiaries/Associate
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

	FURTHER RESOLVED that all actions taken by the Board
of Directors of the Company (including any Committee
thereof) in connection with any matter referred to or
contemplated in this Resolution, be approved, ratified
and confirmed in all respects.”

	“RESOLVED that in partial modification of the Resolution
No. 9 passed by the Members at the Seventy-Sixth
Annual General Meeting of the Company held on
5th August, 2022, and pursuant to the provisions of
Regulation 23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), the applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rules
made thereunder and other applicable provisions, if any,
[including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s)
thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being
in force], the Company’s Policy on Materiality of and
Dealing with Related Party Transactions, and subject
to such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as may be
necessary from time to time and based on the approval/
recommendation of the Audit Committee and the Board
of Directors of the Company, approval of the Members
be accorded to the Company to enter into/ continue
with the existing Material Related Party Transaction(s)/
Contract(s)/ Arrangement(s)/ Agreement(s) (whether by
way of an individual transaction or transactions taken
together or series of transactions or otherwise) falling
within the definition of ‘Related Party Transaction’ under
Regulation 2(1)(zc) of the Listing Regulations read with
the definition of ‘Related Party’ under Regulation 2(1)(zb)
of the Listing Regulations, with Related Parties based
on the revised monetary limit for each of the financial
years from FY 2023-24 to FY 2026-27 i.e., four financial
years as detailed in the explanatory statement to this
Resolution, on such material terms and conditions
as mentioned therein and as may be mutually agreed
between the parties and the Company.

12.	Approval for Material Related Party Transactions
pertaining to a Subsidiary of the Company
	
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
	"RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation
23 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 (“Listing Regulations”) and other applicable
provisions, if any, [including any statutory modification(s)
or amendment(s) thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof,
for the time being in force], the Company’s Policy
on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party
Transactions, and subject to such approval(s), consent(s),
permission(s) as may be necessary from time to time
and based on the approval/ recommendation of the
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the
Company, approval of the Members be accorded to
the Material Related Party Transaction(s)/ Contract(s)/
Arrangement(s)/ Agreement(s) (whether by way of an
individual transaction or transactions taken together or
series of transactions or otherwise) falling within the
definition of ‘Related Party Transaction’ under Regulation
2(1)(zc) of the Listing Regulations to be entered into
by the Subsidiary of the Company as detailed in the
explanatory statement to this Resolution on such
material terms and conditions as mentioned therein

4

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

	FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the
Company (including any Committee thereof) be authorised
to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may
deem fit at its absolute discretion and to take all such
steps as may be required in this connection including
finalising and executing necessary contract(s), scheme(s),
agreement(s) and such other documents as may be
required, seeking all necessary approvals to give effect
to this Resolution, for and on behalf of the Company and
settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts
whatsoever that may arise and to take all such decisions
with regard to the powers herein conferred to, without
being required to seek further consent or approval of
the Members or otherwise to the end and intent that the
Members shall be deemed to have given their approval
thereto expressly by the authority of this Resolution.

4.	
Corporate/Institutional Members are entitled to appoint
authorised representatives to attend the AGM through VC/
OAVM on their behalf and cast their votes through remote
e-voting or at the AGM. Corporate/ Institutional Members
intending to authorise their representatives to participate
and vote at the Meeting are requested to send a certified
copy of the Board resolution/authorisation letter to the
Scrutiniser at e-mail ID sbhagwatcs@yahoo.co.in with a copy
marked to evoting@kfintech.com and to the Company at
investors@mahindra.com, authorising its representative(s)
to attend through VC/OAVM and vote on their behalf at
the Meeting, pursuant to section 113 of the Act.
5.	Members of the Company under the category of
Institutional Shareholders are encouraged to attend and
participate in the AGM through VC/OAVM and vote.
6.	In accordance with the Secretarial Standard - 2 on General
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries
of India (“ICSI”) read with Clarification/Guidance on
applicability of Secretarial Standards - 1 and 2 dated
15th April, 2020 issued by the ICSI, the proceedings
of the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the
Registered Office of the Company which shall be the
deemed venue of the AGM. Since the AGM will be held
through VC/OAVM, the Route Map is not annexed to
this Notice.

	FURTHER RESOLVED that all actions taken by the Board
of Directors of the Company (including any Committee
thereof) in connection with any matter referred to or
contemplated in this Resolution, be approved, ratified
and confirmed in all respects.”
Notes:
1. Pursuant to General Circular No. 20/2020 dated
5th May, 2020 issued by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs (“MCA”) read together with MCA General
Circular Nos. 14 & 17/2020 dated 8th April, 2020
and 13th April, 2020 respectively and MCA General
Circular No. 10/2022 dated 28th December, 2022
("MCA Circulars"), the Company will be conducting
this Annual General Meeting (“AGM” or “Meeting”)
through Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual
Means (“VC”/“OAVM”).

7.	The Explanatory Statement as required under section
102 of the Act is annexed hereto. Further, additional
information with respect to Item Nos. 4 and 5 is also
annexed hereto.
	The Board of Directors has considered and decided to
include the Item Nos. 6 to 13 given above as Special
Business in the AGM in view of the business requirements
and as such unavoidable in nature.

	KFin Technologies Limited, Registrar & Transfer Agent
of the Company (earlier known as KFin Technologies
Private Limited) (“KFin” or “KFintech”) shall be providing
facility for voting through remote e-voting, for participation
in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and e-voting during
the AGM. The procedure for participating in the meeting
through VC/OAVM is explained at Note No. 23 below.

8.	The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
and their shareholding maintained under section 170 of
the Act and Register of Contracts or arrangements in
which directors are interested maintained under section
189 of the Act and relevant documents referred to in
this Notice of AGM and explanatory statement, will be
available electronically for inspection by the Members
during the AGM. All documents referred to in the Notice
will also be available for electronic inspection without
any fee by the Members from the date of circulation of
this Notice up to the date of AGM, i.e. 4th August, 2023.
Members seeking to inspect such documents can send
an email to agm.inspection@mahindra.com.

2.	Pursuant to the above-mentioned MCA Circulars,
physical attendance of the Members is not required
at the AGM, and attendance of the Members through
VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of
reckoning the quorum under section 103 of the
Companies Act, 2013 ("the Act").
3.	Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled
to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint
a Proxy to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the
Proxy need not be a Member of the Company. Since
this AGM is being held through VC/OAVM, pursuant to
the applicable MCA Circulars read with Securities and
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13th May, 2022 and
SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated 5th January,
2023, physical attendance of Members has been
dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment
of Proxies by the Members will not be available for the
AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are
not annexed to this Notice.

9.	The Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent for
its Share Registry Work (Physical and Electronic)
is KFin having their office at Selenium, Tower-B,
Plot No. 31 & 32, Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddy,
Telangana – 500 032.
10.	
BOOK CLOSURE: The Register of Members and Transfer
Books of the Company will be closed from Saturday, 15th
July, 2023 to Friday, 4th August, 2023 (both days inclusive)
for the purpose of Dividend and AGM.

5

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

11.	
DIVIDEND: The dividend, as recommended by the Board
of Directors, if approved at the AGM, would be paid subject
to deduction of tax at source, as may be applicable, after
4th August, 2023, to those persons or their mandates:

Act, 2023 and amendments thereof. Shareholders are
requested to update their Permanent Account Number
(“PAN”) with the Company/KFin (in case of shares held in
physical mode) and Depositories (in case of shares held in
demat mode) on or before Friday, 7th July, 2023.

(a)	whose names appear as Beneficial Owners as at the
end of the business hours on Friday, 14th July, 2023
in the list of Beneficial Owners to be furnished by
National Securities Depository Limited and Central
Depository Services (India) Limited in respect of the
shares held in electronic form; and

 or Resident Shareholders: Tax shall be deducted at
F
source under section 194 of the Income-tax Act, 1961
@10% on the amount of Dividend declared and paid by the
Company during the Financial Year (”FY“) 2023-24
provided a valid PAN is provided by the shareholder. If
PAN is not submitted, TDS would be deducted @20% as
per section 206AA of the Income‑tax Act, 1961.

(b)	whose names appear as Members in the Register
of Members of the Company as at the end of the
business hours on Friday, 14th July, 2023 after giving
effect to valid request(s) received for transmission/
transposition of shares.

a)	
For Resident Individual: No TDS shall be deducted
on the Dividend payable to a resident Individual if
the total dividend to be received during FY 2023-24
does not exceed Rs. 5,000. Please note that this
includes the future dividends, if any, which may be
declared by the Board in the FY 2023-24.

12.	
ELECTRONIC CREDIT OF DIVIDEND: SEBI has
made it mandatory for all companies to use the bank
account details furnished by the Depositories and the
bank account details maintained by the Registrar and
Transfer Agent for payment of dividend to Members
electronically. The Company has extended the facility of
electronic credit of dividend directly to the respective
bank accounts of the Member(s) through the National
Electronic Clearing Service (NECS)/ National Electronic
Fund Transfer (NEFT)/Real Time Gross Settlement
(RTGS)/Direct Credit, etc.

		Separately, in cases where the shareholder provides
Form 15G (applicable to any person other than a
Company or a Firm) / Form 15H (applicable to an
Individual who are 60 years and above), no tax
at source shall be deducted provided that the
eligibility conditions are being met. Needless to say,
PAN is mandatory. Members are requested to note
that in case their PAN is not registered, the tax will
be deducted at a higher rate of 20%.

	As directed by SEBI, the Members holding shares in
physical form are requested to submit particulars of
their bank account in Form ISR 1 alongwith the original
cancelled cheque bearing the name of the Member to
KFin / the Company to update their bank account details.

b)	
For Resident Non-Individual: No tax shall be
deducted on the dividend payable to the following
resident non-individuals where they provide relevant
details and documents:

	Members holding shares in demat form are requested
to update their bank account details with their
respective
Depository Participants ("DPs"). The
Company or KFin cannot act on any request received
directly from the Members holding shares in demat form
for any change of bank particulars. Such changes are to
be intimated only to the DPs of the Members. Further,
instructions, if any, already given by them in respect of
shares held in physical form will not be automatically
applicable to shares held in the electronic mode.
	Shareholders are requested to ensure that their bank
account details in their respective demat accounts are
updated to enable the Company to provide timely credit
of dividend in their bank accounts.
	In case, the Company is unable to pay dividend to any
Member by the electronic mode due to non‑availability
of the details of the bank account, the Company shall
dispatch the dividend warrant/demand draft to such
Member by post/courier.
13.	
TDS ON DIVIDEND: Pursuant to the Income-tax Act,
1961, as amended by the Finance Act, 2020, dividend
income has become taxable in the hands of shareholders
with effect from 1st April, 2020 and therefore, the
Company shall be required to deduct tax at source (TDS)
from dividend paid to shareholders at the prescribed
rates. For the prescribed rates for various categories,
shareholders are requested to refer to the Finance

		i.

Insurance Companies: Self-declaration that
it qualifies as 'Insurer' as per section 2(7A) of
the Insurance Act, 1938 and has full beneficial
interest with respect to the ordinary shares
owned by it along with self-attested copy
of PAN card and certificate of registration
with Insurance Regulatory and Development
Authority of India (IRDAI)/LIC/GIC.

		ii.

Mutual Funds: Self-declaration that it is
registered with SEBI and is notified under
section 10 (23D) of the Income-tax Act, 1961
along with self-attested copy of PAN card and
certificate of registration with SEBI.

		iii.

lternative Investment Fund (AIF): SelfA
declaration that its income is exempt under
section 10 (23FBA) of the Income-tax Act,
1961 and they are registered with SEBI as
Category I or Category II AIF alongwith selfattested copy of the PAN card and certificate
of AIF registration with SEBI.

		

6

iv.	New Pension System (NPS) Trust: Selfdeclaration that it qualifies as NPS trust and
income is eligible for exemption under section
10(44) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and is
being regulated by the provisions of the Indian
Trusts Act, 1882 along with self-attested copy
of the PAN card.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

		

v.	Other Non-Individual shareholders: Selfattested copy of documentary evidence
supporting the exemption along with selfattested copy of PAN card.

•	In case of Foreign Institutional Investors and Foreign
Portfolio Investors, copy of SEBI registration
certificate.
•	In case of shareholder being tax resident of Singapore,
please furnish the letter issued by the competent
authority or any other evidence demonstrating the
non-applicability of Article 24 - Limitation of Relief
under India-Singapore DTAA.

		Please note that as per section 206AB introduced
by the Finance Act, 2021 effective 1st July, 2021
and amended by Finance Act, 2022 in case a person
has not filed his/ her Return of Income for the
preceding financial year and the aggregate of tax
deducted at source in his/her case is Rs. 50,000 or
more in the said financial year, TDS will be higher of
the following:
		

a)	Twice the rate specified in the relevant
provision of the Income-tax Act, 1961; or

		

b)	Twice the rate or rates in force; or

		

c)	The rate of five per cent.

	Please note that the Company is not obligated to apply
the beneficial DTAA rates at the time of tax deduction/
withholding on dividend amounts. Application of beneficial
DTAA rate shall depend upon the completeness and
satisfactory review by the Company, of the documents
submitted by the Non-Resident shareholder.
14.	
Members may submit the aforementioned documents
at https://ris.kfintech.com/form15/ on or before Friday,
7th July, 2023 in order to enable the Company to
determine and deduct appropriate tax. No communication
on the tax determination/deduction shall be entertained
post Friday, 7th July, 2023. It may be further noted that
in case the tax on said dividend is deducted at a higher
rate in absence of receipt of the aforementioned details/
documents from the shareholders, there would still be an
option available with the shareholders to file the return
of income and claim an appropriate refund, if eligible.

		The non-residents who do not have the permanent
establishment and residents who are not required to
file a return under section 139 of Income Tax Act,
1962 are excluded from the scope of a "specified
person" i.e. levy of higher TDS under section 206AB
of Income-tax Act, 1961.
	
For Non-resident Shareholders: Taxes are required to
be withheld in accordance with the provisions of section
195 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 at the applicable rates
in force. As per the relevant provisions of section 195 of
the said Act, the withholding tax shall be at the rate of
20% (plus applicable surcharge and cess) on the amount
of Dividend payable to them. In case of GDRs and
Foreign Portfolio Investors (“FPI”)/ Foreign Institutional
Investors (”FII”), the withholding tax shall be as per the
rates specified in section 196C and 196D of the Incometax Act, 1961 respectively plus applicable surcharge and
cess on the amount of Dividend payable to them.

	In the event of any income tax demand (including
interest, penalty, etc.) arising from any misrepresentation,
inaccuracy or omission of information provided by the
shareholder, such shareholder will be responsible to
indemnify the Company and also provide the Company
with all information/ documents and co-operation in any
appellate proceedings.
	The Company shall arrange to email the soft copy of TDS
certificate to the shareholders at the registered email ID
in due course, post payment of the said Dividend.

	However, as per section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961,
the non-resident shareholder has the option to be governed
by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement
(“DTAA”) between India and the country of tax residence of
the shareholder, if they are more beneficial to them. For
this purpose, i.e. to avail the Tax Treaty benefits, the nonresident shareholder will have to provide the following:

	
An email communication informing the shareholders
regarding this change in the Income-tax Act, 1961 as
well as the relevant procedure to be adopted by them to
avail the applicable tax rate is being sent by the Company
at the registered email IDs of the Shareholders.
15. IEPF: Under the Act, dividends that are unclaimed/
unpaid for a period of seven years are required to be
transferred to the Investor Education and Protection
Fund (“IEPF“) administered by the Central Government.
An amount of Rs. 2,20,46,088 being unclaimed/unpaid
dividend of the Company for the financial year ended
31st March, 2015 was transferred in September, 2022
to IEPF.

•	Self-attested copy of the PAN card allotted by the
Indian Income Tax authorities.
•	Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate
(TRC) for Financial Year 2023-24 obtained from
the tax authorities of the country of which the
shareholder is a resident.
•	Shareholders who have PAN and propose to claim
treaty benefit need to mandatorily file the Form 10F
online at the link https://eportal.incometax.gov.in/ with
effect from 1st April, 2023 to avail the benefit of DTAA.

	The Company paid to IEPF on 8th August, 2022, an
amount of Rs. 2,41,16,981.20 towards dividend for the
financial year ended 31st March, 2022 on such shares
which were transferred to IEPF.

•	Self-declaration by shareholder of meeting treaty
eligibility requirement and satisfying beneficial
ownership requirement for Financial Year 2023-24.

	Members who have not encashed the dividend warrants/
demand drafts so far in respect of the unclaimed and
unpaid dividends declared by the Company for the
Financial Year 2015-16 and thereafter, are requested to
make their claim to KFintech well in advance of the last

•	
Self-declaration by the non-resident shareholder
of having no Permanent Establishment in India in
accordance with the applicable Tax Treaty.
7

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

dates for claiming such unclaimed and unpaid dividends
as specified hereunder:
Financial Year
ended

Date of
declaration of
dividend

Last date for
claiming unpaid/
unclaimed dividend

31st March, 2016 10th August, 2016

8th September, 2023

31st March, 2017 4th August, 2017

2nd September, 2024

31 March, 2018 7 August, 2018

5th September, 2025

31 March, 2019 7 August, 2019

5th September, 2026

31 March, 2020 7 August, 2020

6th September, 2027

31st March, 2021 6th August, 2021

6th September, 2028

31 March, 2022 5 August, 2022

5th September, 2029

st

st

st

st

th

th

th

th

physical securities holders. In view of the above and to
eliminate risk associated with physical shares and to avail
various benefits of dematerialisation, Members are advised
to dematerialise their shares held in physical form.
	
Members are accordingly requested to get in touch
with any Depository Participant having registration with
SEBI to open a Demat account or alternatively, contact
the nearest branch of KFintech to seek guidance in the
demat procedure. Members may also visit website of
depositories viz. National Securities Depository Limited
at https://nsdl.co.in/faqs/faq.php or Central Depository
Services (India) Limited at https://www.cdslindia.com/
Investors/open-demat.html for further understanding the
demat procedure. Members may also refer to Frequently
Asked Questions (“FAQs”) on Company’s website
https://www.mahindra.com.

 ursuant to the provisions of Investor Education and
P
Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer
and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), the Company has
uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts
lying with the Company as on 31st March, 2022 on the
website of the Company at https://www.mahindra.com and
also on the website of the MCA at http://www.iepf.gov.in/.

18.	ELECTRONIC DISPATCH OF NOTICE AND ANNUAL
REPORT: In accordance with the MCA General Circular
Nos. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 2020 and 10/2022 dated
28th December, 2022 and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/
CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated 5th January, 2023, the
financial statements (including Board’s Report, Auditors’
Report or other documents required to be attached
therewith) for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023
pursuant to section 136 of the Act and Notice calling the
AGM pursuant to section 101 of the Act read with the
Rules framed thereunder, such statements including the
Notice of AGM are being sent only in electronic mode to
those Members whose e-mail addresses are registered with
the Company/KFintech or the Depository Participant(s).
The physical copies of such statements and Notice of AGM
will be dispatched only to those shareholders who request
for the same.

	Shareholders are requested to note that, pursuant to the
provisions of section 124 of the Act read with IEPF Rules,
all shares on which dividend has not been paid or claimed
for seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred
to IEPF Authority as notified by the MCA.
	In accordance with the aforesaid IEPF Rules, an
individual communication is being sent to all Members
whose shares are due for transfer to the IEPF Authority
and whose email IDs are available, informing them to
claim their unclaimed/unpaid dividend before due date
to avoid such transfer of shares to IEPF Authority and
notice in this regard is being published in Newspapers.

	Members are requested to register/update their email
addresses, in respect of electronic holdings with
the Depository through the concerned Depository
Participants and in respect of physical holdings with the
Company / KFintech by following due procedure.

	Members whose unclaimed dividends/shares are/will be
transferred to the IEPF Authority can claim the same
by making an online application to the IEPF Authority in
the prescribed Form No. IEPF-5 by following the refund
procedure as detailed on the website of IEPF Authority
http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html.

	
A copy of the Notice of this AGM along with Annual
Report for the FY 2022-23 is available on the website
of the Company at https://www.mahindra.com, website
of the Stock Exchanges where the shares of the
Company are listed i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock
Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and
www.nseindia.com respectively and on the website of
KFin at https://evoting.kfintech.com.

16.	NOMINATION: Members can avail of the facility of
nomination in respect of shares held by them in physical
form pursuant to the provisions of section 72 of the Act.
Members desiring to avail of this facility may send their
nomination in the prescribed Form No. SH-13 duly filled in
to KFin at the above-mentioned address. Members holding
shares in electronic form may contact their respective
Depository Participants for availing this facility.

19. Members are requested to:

17.	
TRANSFER OF SHARES PERMITTED IN DEMAT
FORM ONLY: As per Regulation 40 of the SEBI (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 ("Listing Regulations"), securities of listed companies
can be transferred only in dematerialised form with
effect from 1st April, 2019, except in case of transmission
or transposition of securities. Further, SEBI vide its
Circular dated 25th January, 2022, has mandated that
securities shall be issued only in dematerialised mode
while processing duplicate/ unclaimed suspense/ renewal/
exchange/ endorsement/ sub‑division/ consolidation/
transmission/ transposition service requests received from

a.	intimate to KFin/ the Company, changes, if any,
pertaining to their postal address, e-mail address,
telephone/ mobile numbers, Permanent Account
Number (PAN), mandates, nominations, in Form ISR1 and other forms prescribed by SEBI;
b.	intimate to the respective Depository Participant,
changes, if any, in their registered addresses at an
early date, in case of shares held in dematerialised
form;
c.	quote their folio numbers/Client ID/DP ID in all
correspondence;
8

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

d.	consolidate their holdings into one folio in case they
hold shares under multiple folios in the identical
order of names;

provided they hold shares as on the cut-off date i.e.
Friday, 28th July, 2023. The Company reserves the right
to restrict the number of speakers depending on the
availability of time at the AGM.

e.	register their PAN with their Depository Participants,
in case of shares held in dematerialised form; and

23.	
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS ATTENDING THE AGM
THROUGH VC/OAVM:

f.	refer to Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) section
on Company’s website https://www.mahindra.com
for all requisite formats and procedures.

a)

20.	
SCRUTINISER FOR E-VOTING: Mr. Sachin Bhagwat,
Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. ACS
10189) and failing him Mr. Prashant Vaishampayan,
Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. FCS
4251) has been appointed as the Scrutiniser to scrutinise
the e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.

 TTENDING THE AGM: Members will be provided
A
with a facility to attend the AGM through video
conferencing platform provided by KFin. Members
are requested to login at https://emeetings.kfintech.
com and click on the “Video Conference” tab to
join the Meeting by using the remote e-voting
credentials.

b)	Please note that Members who do not have the User
ID and Password for e-voting or have forgotten the
User ID and Password may retrieve the same by
following the instructions provided in Note No. 24
and 25.

21.	
SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONS / QUERIES PRIOR TO
AGM:
a.	
For ease of conduct of AGM, Members who wish
to ask questions/express their views on the items
of the businesses to be transacted at the meeting
are requested to write to the Company’s investor
email-id investors@mahindra.com, at least 48 hours
before the time fixed for the AGM i.e. by 3.00 p.m.
(IST) on Wednesday, 2nd August, 2023, mentioning
their name, demat account number/folio number,
registered email ID, mobile number etc. The queries
may be raised precisely and in brief to enable the
Company to answer the same suitably depending
on the availability of time at the AGM.

c)	
Members may join the Meeting through Laptops,
Smartphones, Tablets or iPads for better experience.
Further, Members will be required to use Internet
with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during
the Meeting. Members will need the latest version
of Chrome, Safari, MS Edge or Firefox. Please note
that participants connecting from Mobile Devices or
Tablets or through Laptops connecting via mobile
hotspot may experience Audio/Video loss due to
fluctuation in their respective network. It is therefore
recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection
to mitigate any glitches. Members are encouraged to
join the Meeting through Laptops with latest version
of Google Chrome for better experience.

b.	Alternatively, Members holding shares as on the
cut-off date i.e. Friday, 28th July, 2023, may also
visit https://emeetings.kfintech.com and click on
the tab “Post Your Queries” and post their queries/
views in the window provided, by mentioning their
name, demat account number/ folio number, email
ID and mobile number. The window shall be closed
48 hours before the time fixed for the AGM i.e. at
3.00 p.m. (IST) on Wednesday, 2nd August, 2023.

d)	Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode
30 minutes before the scheduled time of the
commencement of the Meeting by following the
procedure mentioned at Point No. a above and this
mode will be available throughout the proceedings
of the AGM.

c.	Members can also post their questions during AGM
through the “Ask A Question” tab, which is available
in the VC/OAVM Facility as well as in the one way
live webcast facility.

e)	
In case of any query and/or help, in respect
of attending AGM through VC/OAVM mode,
Members may refer to the "How it Works" section
of https://emeetings.kfintech.com or contact at
investors@mahindra.com, or Ms. Sheetal Doba,
Manager - Corporate Registry, KFintech at Selenium,
Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial
District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad,
Rangareddy, Telangana – 500 032 or at the email
ID evoting@kfintech.com or on phone No.: 040-6716
1509 or call KFin’s toll free No.: 1800-3094-001 for
any further clarifications.

	The Company will, at the AGM, endeavour to address
the queries received till 3.00 p.m. (IST) on Wednesday,
2nd August, 2023 from those Members who have sent
queries from their registered email IDs. Please note
that Members’ questions will be answered only if they
continue to hold shares as on the cut-off date.
22.	
SPEAKER REGISTRATION BEFORE AGM: Members
of the Company who would like to speak or express
their views or ask questions during the AGM
may register themselves as speakers by visiting
https://emeetings.kfintech.com and clicking on “Speaker
Registration” during the period from Monday, 24th July,
2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) upto Wednesday, 26th July, 2023
(5:00 p.m. IST). Those Members who have registered
themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to speak/
express their views/ask questions during the AGM

24. PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE E-VOTING
	In compliance with the provisions of section 108 of the
Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and
Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and the provisions
of Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations read with SEBI
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9th
December, 2020, Members are provided with the facility to
9

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

cast their vote electronically, through the e-voting services
provided by KFin on all resolutions set forth in this Notice,
through remote e-voting.

has been enabled to all the individual demat account
holders, by way of single login credential, through their
demat accounts / websites of Depositories / DPs in order
to increase the efficiency of the voting process.

	
Members are requested to note that the Company is
providing facility for remote e-voting and the business
may be transacted through electronic voting system. It
is hereby clarified that it is not mandatory for a Member
to vote using the remote e-voting facility. A Member
may avail of the facility at his/her/its discretion, as per
the instructions provided herein:

	Individual demat account holders would be able to
cast their vote without having to register again with
the e-Voting service provider (ESP) thereby not only
facilitating seamless authentication but also ease
and convenience of participating in e-Voting process.
Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number
and e-mail ID with their DPs to access e-Voting facility.

	
Information and instructions for Remote e-voting
by Individual Shareholders holding shares of the
Company in demat mode:

	The procedure to login and access remote e-voting, as
devised by the Depositories/ Depository Participant(s), is
given below:

	Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9th December, 2020 on “e-Voting
facility provided by Listed Companies”, e-Voting process
Type of shareholders

A)

 ogin method for remote e-Voting for Individual
L
shareholders holding securities in demat mode.

Login Method

Individual Shareholders 1.
holding securities in
demat mode with NSDL

User already registered for IDeAS facility:
I.

Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com

II.

Click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” under ‘IDeAS’ section.

III.

On the new page, enter User ID and Password.

IV.

Post successful authentication, click on “Access to e-Voting”

V.	You will see Company Name: “Mahindra & Mahindra Limited” on the next screen. Click on the
e-Voting link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service provider
“KFintech” and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote without
any further authentication.
2.

User not registered for IDeAS e-Services
I.

To register click on link: https://eservices.nsdl.com

II.	Select “Register Online for IDeAS” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp

3.

III.

Proceed with completing the required fields.

IV.

Follow steps given in point 1.

Alternatively by directly accessing the e-Voting website of NSDL
I.

Open URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/

II.

Click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.

III.	On the login page, enter User ID (that is, 16-character demat account number held with NSDL,
starting with IN), Login Type, that is, through typing Password (in case you are registered on NSDL’s
e-voting platform)/ through generation of OTP (in case your mobile/e-mail address is registered in
your demat account) and Verification Code as shown on the screen.
IV.	On successful authentication, you will enter the e-voting module of NSDL. Click on “Active E-voting
Cycles / VC or OAVMs” option under E-voting. You will see Company Name: “Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited” on the next screen. Click on the e-Voting link available against Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited or select e-Voting service provider “KFintech” and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting
page of KFintech to cast your vote without any further authentication.

10

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Type of shareholders

Login Method

Individual Shareholders 1.
holding securities in
demat mode with CDSL

Existing user already opted for Easi / Easiest
I.	Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasinew/home/login/ or URL: www.cdslindia.com and
click on New System Myeasi / Login to My Easi option under Quick Login
II.

Enter your User ID and Password for accessing Easi / Easiest.

III.	You will see Company Name: “Mahindra & Mahindra Limited” on the next screen. Click on the
e-Voting link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service provider
“KFintech” and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote without
any further authentication.
2.

User not registered for Easi/Easiest
I.	Option to register is available at https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasinew/Registration/EasiRegistration

3.

II.

Proceed with completing the required fields.

III.

Follow the steps given in point 1.

Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-Voting website of CDSL
I.

Visit URL: www.cdslindia.com

II.

Click on Evoting tab and provide your demat Account Number and PAN.

III.	System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the
demat Account.
IV.	On successful authentication, you will enter the e-voting module of CDSL. Click on the e-Voting
link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service provider “KFintech”
and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote without any further
authentication.
Individual Shareholders
holding securities in
demat mode – Login
through demat
accounts / Website of
Depository Participant

I.	Individual shareholders holding shares of the Company in Demat mode can access e-Voting facility
provided by the Company using login credentials of their demat accounts (online accounts) through
their demat accounts / websites of Depository Participants registered with NSDL/CDSL.
II.	An option for “e-Voting” will be available once you have successfully logged-in through your respective
logins. Click on the option “e-Voting” and you will be redirected to e-Voting modules of NSDL/CDSL (as
may be applicable).
III.	Click on the e-Voting link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service
provider “KFintech” and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote
without any further authentication.

		Members who are unable to retrieve User ID /
Password are advised to use "Forgot user ID" and
"Forgot Password" option available at respective
websites.

Members whose e-mail IDs are registered with
the Company/Depository Participant(s)] which
includes details of E-Voting Event Number
(“EVEN“), USER ID and password:

		Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities
in demat mode for any technical issues related to
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:
Login type

Helpdesk details

Securities
held with
NSDL

Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending
a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at
toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800
22 44 30

Securities
held with
CDSL

Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a
request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com
or contact at 022-23058738 or 02223058542/43

B)	Login method for e-Voting for shareholders other
than Individual shareholders holding securities
in demat mode and for all shareholders holding
securities in physical mode.
		

a.	Member will receive an e-mail from KFin [for

11

			

(i)	
Launch internet browser by typing the
URL: https://evoting.Kfintech.com.

			

(ii)	Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and
password). In case of physical folio, User ID
will be EVEN followed by folio number. In
case of Demat account, User ID will be your
DP ID and Client ID. However, if you are
already registered with KFin for e-voting,
you can login by using your existing User
ID and password for casting your vote.

			

(iii)	After entering these details appropriately,
click on “LOGIN”.

			

(iv)	You will now reach password change Menu
wherein you are required to mandatorily
change your password. The new password
shall comprise of minimum 8 characters
with at least one upper case (A-Z), one
lower case (a-z), one numeric value (0-9)
and a special character (@,#,$, etc.). The

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

the Company at investors@mahindra.com.
It should reach the Scrutiniser & the
Company by email not later than Thursday,
3rd August, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). In case
if the authorised representative attends
the Meeting, the above mentioned
documents shall be submitted before the
commencement of AGM.

system will prompt you to change your
password and update your contact details
like mobile number, email ID etc. on first
login. You may also enter a secret question
and answer of your choice to retrieve your
password in case you forget it. It is strongly
recommended that you do not share
your password with any other person and
that you take utmost care to keep your
password confidential.
			

(v)	You need to login again with the new
credentials.

			

(vi)	On successful login, the system will
prompt you to select the “EVENT” i.e.
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited.

			

(vii)	On the voting page, enter the number
of shares (which represents the number
of votes) as on the cut-off date under
“FOR/AGAINST” or alternatively, you may
partially enter any number in “FOR” and
partially “AGAINST” but the total number
in “FOR/AGAINST” taken together shall
not exceed your total shareholding as on
the cut-off date. You may also choose the
option ABSTAIN. If the Member does not
indicate either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it will
be treated as “ABSTAIN” and the shares
held will not be counted under either
head.

			

(viii)	Voting has to be done for each item of
the notice separately. In case you do not
desire to cast your vote on any specific
item, it will be treated as abstained.

			

(ix)	Members holding multiple folios/ demat
accounts shall vote separately for each
folio/ demat account.

			

(x)	You may then cast your vote by selecting
an appropriate option and click on
“Submit”.

			

(xi)	A confirmation box will be displayed. Click
“OK” to confirm else “CANCEL” to modify.
Once you have voted on the resolution(s),
you will not be allowed to modify your
vote. During the voting period, you can
login multiple times till you have confirmed
that you have voted on the resolution.

			

(xii)	Corporate/ Institutional Members (i.e. other
than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) are required
to send scanned certified true copy
(PDF Format) of the Board Resolution/
Authority Letter etc., duly authorising
their authorised representative(s) to
attend the AGM through VC/OAVM on
its behalf and to vote through remote
e-voting to the Scrutiniser at his e-mail
ID sbhagwatcs@yahoo.co.in with a copy
marked to evoting@kfintech.com and to

		

b.	In case e-mail ID of a Member is not registered
with the Company/ Depository Participant(s),
then such Member is requested to register/
update their e-mail addresses with the
Depository Participant (in case of Shares held
in dematerialised form) and inform KFin at
the email ID evoting@kfintech.com (in case of
Shares held in physical form):

			

(i)	Upon registration, Member will receive an
e-mail from KFin which includes details of
E-Voting Event Number (EVEN), USER ID
and password.

			

(ii)	Please follow all steps from Note No. 24
(B) (a) (i) to (xii) above to cast your vote
by electronic means.

25. OTHER INSTRUCTIONS:
a.	In case of any query and/or grievance, in respect of
voting by electronic means, Members may refer to
the Help & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and
E-voting user manual available at the download
Section of https://evoting.kfintech.com or contact
at investors@mahindra.com, or Ms. Sheetal Doba,
Manager - Corporate Registry, KFin at KFintech,
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana – 500 032 or
at the email ID evoting@kfintech.com or on phone
No.: 040-6716 1509 or call KFin’s toll free No.:
1800-3094-001 for any further clarifications.
b.	You can also update your mobile number and e-mail
ID in the user profile details of the folio which may
be used for sending future communication(s).
c.	The remote e-voting period commences on Monday,
31st July, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on Thursday,
3rd August, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST). During this period,
Members of the Company, holding shares either in
physical form or in dematerialised form, as on the
cut-off date Friday, 28th July, 2023 may cast their
votes electronically. The remote e-voting module
shall be disabled for voting thereafter. Once the vote
on a resolution(s) is cast by the Member, the Member
shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
		A person who is not a Member as on the cut-off date
should treat this Notice for information purposes only.
d.	The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion
to their share in the paid-up equity share capital of
the Company as on Friday, 28th July, 2023 being the
cut-off date. Members are eligible to cast vote only
if they are holding shares as on that date.

12

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

e.	Persons holding securities in physical mode and nonindividual shareholders holding securities in demat
mode who become Members of the Company after
dispatch of AGM Notice but on or before the cutoff date for E-Voting, i.e. Friday, 28th July, 2023, may
obtain the User ID and Password in the manner as
mentioned below:
		

(i)	
If the mobile number of the Member is
registered against Folio No./DP ID Client ID, the
Member may send SMS: MYEPWD Folio No. or
DP ID Client ID to +91 9212993399. In case of
physical holding, prefix Folio No. with EVEN.

			
			

Example for NSDL:
MYEPWD <SPACE> IN12345612345678

			
			

Example for CDSL:
MYEPWD <SPACE> 1402345612345678

			
			
			

Example for Physical:
MYEPWD <SPACE> XXXX1234567890
(XXXX being EVEN)

		

27.	The results shall be declared not later than fortyeight hours from conclusion of the Meeting which is
within the time stipulated under the applicable laws.
The results declared along with the Scrutiniser’s
Report will be placed on the website of the Company
at https://www.mahindra.com and the website of
KFin: https://evoting.kfintech.com immediately after
the results are declared and will simultaneously
be forwarded to BSE Limited and National Stock
Exchange of India Limited, where Equity Shares of
the Company are listed and shall be displayed at the
Registered Office as well as at the Corporate Office of
the Company.
28.	PROCEDURE FOR REGISTERING THE EMAIL
ADDRESSES AND OBTAINING THE AGM NOTICE
AND E-VOTING INSTRUCTIONS BY THE MEMBERS
WHOSE EMAIL ADDRESSES ARE NOT REGISTERED
WITH THE DEPOSITORIES (IN CASE OF MEMBERS
HOLDING SHARES IN DEMAT FORM) OR WITH
KFIN (IN CASE OF MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES IN
PHYSICAL FORM):

(ii)	
If e-mail address or mobile number of the
Member is registered against Folio No./
DP ID Client ID, then on the home page of
https://evoting.kfintech.com, the member may
click “Forgot Password” and enter Folio No.
or DP ID Client ID and PAN to generate a
password.

		

(iii)	Member may call KFin toll free number
1800-3094-001.

		

(iv)	Member may send an e-mail request to
evoting@kfintech.com.

I.	Those Members who have not yet registered their
email addresses are requested to get their email
addresses registered by following the procedure
given below:

			KFin shall send User ID and Password to those
new Members whose e-mail IDs are available.
26. VOTING AT THE AGM:
a.	The procedure for e-voting during the AGM is same as
the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting
since the Meeting is being held through VC/OAVM.
b.	The e-voting window shall be activated upon
instructions of the Chairman of the Meeting during
the AGM.

		

a.	Members holding shares in demat form can get
their email ID registered by contacting their
respective Depository Participant.

		

b.	
Members holding shares in physical form
may register their email address and mobile
number with KFin Technologies Limited
by sending Form ISR-1 and other relevant
forms to KFintech at Selenium, Tower-B, Plot
No. 31 & 32, Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad,
Rangareddy, Telangana India – 500 032 or
at the email ID einward.ris@kfintech.com for
receiving the AGM Notice and the e-voting
instructions.

II.	Those Members who have already registered their
email addresses are requested to keep their email
addresses validated/updated with their DPs / KFin
to enable serving of notices / documents / Annual
Reports and other communications electronically to
their email address in future.

c.	E-voting during the AGM is integrated with the VC/
OAVM platform and no separate login is required
for the same.
d.	
Only those Members/ Shareholders, who will be
present in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and
have not cast their vote on the Resolutions through
remote e-voting and are otherwise not barred from
doing so, shall be eligible to vote through e-voting
system in the AGM.

29. KPRISM – Mobile service application by KFin:
	Members are requested to note that KFin has
launched a mobile application – KPRISM and a website
https://kprism.kfintech.com for online service to Members.
Members can download the mobile application, register
themselves (one time) for availing host of services viz.,
view of consolidated portfolio serviced by KFin, Dividend
status, requests for change of address, change/update
Bank Mandate. Through the Mobile application, Members
can download Annual Reports, standard forms and
keep track of upcoming General Meetings and dividend
disbursements.

e.	Members who have already cast their votes by
remote e-voting are eligible to attend the Meeting
through VC/OAVM; however, these Members are not
entitled to cast their vote again during the Meeting.
A Member can opt for only single mode of voting
i.e. through Remote e-voting or voting through VC/
OAVM mode during the AGM.

13

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

	The mobile application is
available for download
from Android Play Store.
Members may alternatively
visit the link https://kprism.
kfintech.com/app/ or scan
the QR Code to download
the mobile application.

a.	Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV) - the authorized
person of the RTA shall verify the original documents
furnished by the investor and retain copy(ies) with
IPV stamping with date and initials; or
b.	Through hard copies which are self-attested, which
can be shared on the address below; or
Name

KFIN Technologies
Limited

Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited

Address Selenium Building,
Shares Department,
Tower-B,
Mahindra Towers, 2nd Floor,
Plot No 31 & 32,
Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
Financial District,
Worli, Mumbai – 400 018.
Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddy,
Telangana India - 500 032.

30. Webcast:
	Your Company will be providing the facility of live
webcast of proceedings of AGM. Members who are
entitled to participate in the AGM can view the
proceedings of AGM by logging on the website of KFin
at https://emeetings.kfintech.com using their secure
login credentials. Members are encouraged to use this
facility of webcast. During the live webcast of AGM,
Members may post their queries in the message box
provided on the screen.

c.	Through electronic mode with e-sign by following
the link: https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/
default.aspx#

31.	
Procedure for registration and updation of email and
mobile for securities held in physical mode:

	Detailed FAQ can be found on the link: https://ris.kfintech.
com/faq.html

	
Members of the Company holding shares in physical
mode are hereby notified that SEBI has mandated that
all the folios have to be KYC compliant and accordingly,
asked the shareholders to furnish their PAN, contact
details, bank account details and nomination to
the Registrars and Share Transfer Agents (RTAs).
The shareholders are also required to register the
postal address with PIN and are encouraged to register
their e-mail ID.

	For more information on updating the email and mobile
detail for securities held in electronic mode, please reach
out to the respective DP(s), where the demat account is
being held.
By Order of the Board
NARAYAN SHANKAR
Company Secretary
ACS No. 8666

	
Further, members holding shares in physical mode can
register/update their contact details by submitting the
requisite Form ISR 1 along with the supporting documents.
The aforesaid form can be downloaded from the website
of the Company and RTA at: https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/regulatory-filings and https://ris.
kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx respectively.

Registered Office:
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – 400 001.
CIN
: L65990MH1945PLC004558
e-mail
: investors@mahindra.com
Website : https://www.mahindra.com
Tel.
: +91 22 22895500
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

	
ISR Form(s) and the supporting documents can be
provided by any one of the following modes:

14

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Additional Information with respect to Item Nos. 4 and
5 and Explanatory Statement in respect of the Special
Business in Item Nos. 6 to 13 pursuant to section 102 of
the Companies Act, 2013

Directorships and Committee positions:
Mr. Sharma is Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Director of Ambuja Cement
Foundation, Independent Director of Tata Steel Limited,
Reliance Power Limited, NURECA Limited and Vidarbha
Industries Power Limited.

ITEM NO. 4:
Proposal:

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is a Chairman/Member of the
following Board Committees:

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN: 02449088), the Non‑Executive
Non-Independent Director of the Company representing
Life Insurance Corporation of India is liable to retire by rotation
and being eligible, has offered himself for re‑appointment. Mr.
Vijay Kumar Sharma was first appointed as a Director on the
Board of the Company with effect from 14th November, 2018.
Brief resume of Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma, nature of his expertise
in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships between
directors inter-se, name of listed entities and other companies
in which he holds directorships and memberships/chairmanships
of Board Committees, shareholding in the Company, the
number of Meetings of the Board attended during the year,
along with disclosure pertaining to his resignation from listed
entities in the past three years, as stipulated under SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings issued by
the Institute of Company Secretaries of India are stated herein,
and are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report
forming part of the Annual Report.

Sr. Name of the
No. Company

Name of the
Committee

Position
Held

1.

Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited

Strategic Investment
Committee

Member

2.

Tata Steel Limited

Stakeholders
Relationship
Committee

Chairman

Nomination and
Remuneration
Committee

Member

Safety Health
and Environment
Committee

Member

Nomination and
Remuneration
Committee

Chairman

Stakeholders
Relationship
Committee

Chairman

Audit Committee

Member

Risk Management
Committee

Member

Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee

Member

Vidarbha Industries Audit Committee
Power Limited
CSR Committee

Chairman

3.

Reliance Power
Limited

Profile:
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma has completed 64 years of age.
Mr. Sharma is a post-graduate (M.Sc.) from Patna University.
He joined Life Insurance Corporation of India (“LIC”) as Direct
Recruit Officer in 1981 and grew up with the Corporation
since then. He held various challenging assignments pan India
and in all operational streams including in-charge positions
at different levels. Working across length and breadth of
the country has added immensely to his experience and
honed his understanding of demographics of the country,
socio-economic needs of different regions and multi-cultural
challenges in implementation of LIC’s objectives.

4.

Mr. Sharma superannuated as Chairman of LIC on
31st December, 2018. Prior to his taking over as Chairman
on 16th December, 2016, he served as Chairman (In charge)
from 16th September, 2016 and Managing Director of
LIC from 1st November, 2013. From December, 2010 to
November, 2013, he served as Managing Director & Chief
Executive Officer, LIC Housing Finance Limited (LIC HFL), a
premier housing finance company in the country. As MD &
CEO of LIC HFL, he stabilized the operations under most
challenging circumstances of negative media glare, intense
scrutiny by Regulator & others and turned it around to be
the best Housing Finance Company in 2011.

Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee

Chairman
Member

Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years:
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma has resigned as a Director of ACC
Limited on 20 th July, 2020.
Attendance at Board Meetings:
During the year 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023, 9 Board
Meetings of the Company were held and Mr. Vijay Kumar
Sharma had attended 8 Meetings.

He has been an inspirational leader who utilizes negotiation
skills gained over thirty seven years of extensive experience
in insurance and financial sectors and strongly connects to
the grass root levels, believes in bottom-up approach and has
the ability to see the Big Picture and translate it to reality. He
is known as Growth Leader, leading the Organisation to surge
ahead and turnaround on its growth path in all the segments
of performance.

Remuneration:
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is entitled to sitting fees for
attending the Meetings of the Board of Directors and
Committees thereof. In addition, he would be entitled to
commission, which is paid to LIC, as determined each year
by the Board of Directors within the limits approved by the

15

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Members of the Company for the Non-Executive Directors of
the Company. The sitting fees paid to Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
during the Financial Year 2022- 23 is Rs. 10.10 lakhs. The
commission paid to LIC on behalf of Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
for the Financial Year 2021-22 is Rs. 30 lakhs. For Financial
Year 2022-23, Commission payable to LIC on behalf of
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma will be Rs. 38 lakhs.

As the remuneration payable to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra in
the Financial Year 2023-24 (in accordance with the approval
accorded by the Members at the Seventy-Fifth Annual General
Meeting) is likely to exceed fifty percent of the total annual
remuneration payable to all Non-Executive Directors of the
Company, consent of the Members is sought for passing a
Special Resolution as set out at Item No. 6 of the Notice.
Brief resume of Mr. Mahindra, nature of his expertise in specific
functional areas, disclosure of relationships between directors
inter-se, name of listed entities and other companies in which
he holds directorships and memberships/ chairmanships
of Board Committees, shareholding in the Company, the
number of Meetings of the Board attended during the year,
along with disclosure pertaining to his resignation from
listed entities in the past three years, as stipulated under
the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on General
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of
India are stated herein, and are also provided in the Corporate
Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report.

Other information:
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma does not hold any Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company.
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is not debarred from holding the office
of Director pursuant to any Order issued by the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any other authority.
Save and except Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma, and his relatives to
the extent of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company,
none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“)
of the Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set
out at Item No. 4 of the Notice. Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is not
related to any other Director / KMP of the Company.

Profile:
Mr. Mahindra has completed 68 years of age.

The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at
Item No. 4 of the Notice for approval of the Members.

Mr. Mahindra graduated Magna Cum Laude from Harvard
College (1977) and secured an MBA from the Harvard
Business School (1981). He made a generous endowment in
2010 to the Harvard Humanities Center which is now known
as the Mahindra Humanities Centre at Harvard. In 2008
he was bestowed the Harvard Business School’s Alumni
Achievement Award and in 2014 he became the first Indian
recipient of the Harvard Alumni Association’s Harvard Medal.

ITEM NOS. 5 and 6:
Proposal:
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: 00004695), Non-Executive
Chairman of the Company, is liable to retire by rotation and being
eligible, has offered himself for re-appointment and hence
consent of the Members is sought for passing an Ordinary
Resolution as set out at Item No. 5 of the Notice.

Mr. Mahindra was first appointed as a Director on the
Board of the Company on 23rd November, 1989. He then
took over as Deputy Managing Director of the Company in
1991 at a time when the turnover was US$ 177 million. He
initiated a comprehensive change programme to make the
Company an efficient and aggressive competitor in the new
liberalised economic environment in India.

Mr. Mahindra was first appointed on the Board on
23rd November, 1989 as a Director of the Company and
transitioned to the role of Non-Executive Chairman of the
Company with effect from 12th November, 2021.
As Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Anand Mahindra serves
as mentor and sounding board for the Managing Director
and Senior Management especially in the areas of Strategic
Planning, Risk Mitigation and External Interface. He continues
to play an important role in epitomising and building Brand
Mahindra. He is available to provide feedback and counsel
to the Managing Director and Senior Management on key
issues facing the Company.

In April 1997, he was appointed as Managing Director of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and in January 2001 given
the additional responsibility of Vice Chairman. In August
2012, he was appointed as Chairman and designated as
Chairman & Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited. In November, 2016, Mr. Mahindra was re-designated
as Executive Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited.

The remuneration paid to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, as Non
Executive Chairman of the Company from 12th November,
2021 till date and to be paid until 11th November, 2026 has
been and will be in accordance with the approval accorded
by the Members at the Seventy-Fifth Annual General Meeting
held on 6th August, 2021.

Mr. Anand Mahindra's tenure has seen the Group expand
domestically and internationally into a range of major industrial
sectors from automobiles and agriculture to IT and aerospace.
He has served on several influential bodies, national and
international. These include the Reserve Bank of India, UN
Global Compact Board, Global Board of Advisors of the
Council on Foreign Relations, World Bank Group’s Advisory
Board for Doing Business and the International Advisory
Council of Singapore’s Economic Development Board. He has
been the President of The Confederation of Indian Industry
and served on the boards of the National Stock Exchange of
India Limited and the National Council of Applied Economic
Research. He is currently on the Board of Invest India, the
National Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency.

Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 17(6)(ca) of SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 ("Listing Regulations"), approval of the Members of the
Company by way of a Special Resolution is required to be
obtained every year for payment of Annual Remuneration
to a single Non-Executive Director exceeding fifty percent of
the total annual remuneration payable to all Non-Executive
Directors, giving details of remuneration thereof.

16

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Mr. Mahindra has been conferred with the Padma Bhushan
Award (2020), India's third highest civilian honour for his
contribution to the nation in the field of ‘Trade and Industry’.
He has been named in Barron's List of Top 30 CEOs worldwide
(2016) and Fortune Magazine’s list of the World’s 50 Greatest
Leaders (2014). He was a recipient of the Best Transformational
Leader Award by the Asian Centre for Corporate Governance &
Sustainability (2012). He was appointed ‘Knight in the National
Order of the Legion of Honour’ by the President of the French
Republic (2016) and conferred the 'Grand Officer of the Order
of the Star of Italy', by the President of Italy (2013).

Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years:
Mr. Mahindra has not resigned as a Director from any listed
entity in the past three years.
Attendance at Board Meetings:
During the year 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023, 9 Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Mr. Mahindra had
attended all the Meetings.
Remuneration:
The terms and conditions and remuneration of Mr. Mahindra
would be governed as per the approval granted by the
Members of the Company at the Seventy-Fifth Annual General
Meeting held on 6th August, 2021. The remuneration paid to
Mr. Mahindra during the Financial Year 2022-23 is Rs. 5.14
crores (including sitting fees).

Mr. Mahindra is an incisive business commentator and
humanitarian with over 10 million followers on Twitter. Among
his many social change initiatives is the Nanhi Kali programme,
which, for the last two decades, has provided over 330,000
under-privileged girls access to high quality education. Mr.
Mahindra is the Chairman of the Board of Naandi Foundation,
India’s leading NGO focused on educating girls, skilling youth
and providing sustainable livelihoods to small farmers through
biodynamic agriculture. Mr. Mahindra also serves on the
Founders Board of The Rise Fund, a $2 billion impact fund.

Other information:
Mr. Mahindra holds 14,30,008 Ordinary (Equity) Shares in
the Company.
Mr. Mahindra is not debarred from holding the office of
Director pursuant to any Order issued by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any other authority.

He is a strong votary of arts and culture. Mahindra Blues,
Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Awards and Mahindra
Sanatkada celebrate and nurture music, theatre culture,
art and history in India. Mr. Mahindra is the member of the
Global Advisory Council of the Lincoln Center, New York
and has previously served on the Board of Trustees of the
Natural History Museum of London.

Save and except Mr. Mahindra, and his relatives to the extent
of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none
of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of
the Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set
out at Item Nos. 5 & 6 of the Notice. Mr. Mahindra is not
related to any other Director / KMP of the Company.

In 2014, Mr. Mahindra founded the Pro Kabaddi League
to popularize the ancient and popular Indian game of
kabaddi. The league, televised through the STAR television
network, is aimed at creating a new popular fan following
for Kabaddi as an antithesis to cricket.

The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at
Item No. 5 and Special Resolution set out at Item No. 6 of
the Notice for approval of the Members.
ITEM NO. 7:

Directorships and Committee positions:

The Board of Directors, at its Meeting held on 26th May, 2023,
upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, approved
the appointment of Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants
having Firm Registration Number 000611, as Cost Auditors of
the Company for conducting the audit of the cost records of
the Company, for the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2024,
at a remuneration of Rs. 9,00,000 (Rupees Nine Lakhs only)
(plus Goods and Services Tax and reimbursement of out of
pocket expenses).

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Mahindra Holdings Limited and
Classic Legends Private Limited, and Director of Prudential
Management & Services Private Limited, The Mahindra United
World College of India, Tech Mahindra Foundation, Araku
Originals Private Limited, Naandi Community Water Services
Private Limited, Breach Candy Hospital Trust, Invest India and
The Indian and Eastern Engineer Company Private Limited. He
is also Part-time non‑official Director of the Central Board of
the Reserve Bank of India.

Pursuant to section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013
read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
2014, Members of the Company are required to ratify the
remuneration to be paid to the cost auditors of the Company.

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is a Chairman/Member of the following
Board Committees:
Sr. Name of the
No. Company

Name of the Committee

Position
held

1.

Strategic Investment
Committee

Chairman

Sale of Assets Committee

Chairman

Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited

Accordingly, consent of the Members is sought for passing
an Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. 7 of the
Notice for ratification of the remuneration payable to the
Cost Auditors for conducting the audit of the cost records of
the Company for the Financial Year ending 31st March, 2024.

Member
Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee

None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out
at Item No. 7 of the Notice.

Stakeholders Relationship
Committee

The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at
Item No. 7 of the Notice for approval of the Members.

Member

17

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

ITEM NO. 8:

Dr. Shah joined Mahindra Group in 2014, as Group President
(Strategy), and worked closely with all businesses on key
strategic initiatives, built capabilities such as digitization &
data sciences and enabled synergies across group companies.
In 2019, he was appointed Deputy Managing Director and
Group CFO, with responsibility for the Group Corporate Office
and full oversight of all businesses other than the Auto and
Farm sectors, as a part of the transition plan to the CEO role.

Background & Proposal
The Members of the Company at the Seventy-Fourth Annual
General Meeting of the Company held on 7th August, 2020
(“74th AGM”), had approved the appointment of Dr. Anish Shah
(DIN: 02719429) as Whole-time Director of the Company
designated as Deputy Managing Director and Group Chief
Financial Officer of the Company with effect from 1st April,
2020 to 1st April, 2021 and as the Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company with effect from 2nd April,
2021 to 31st March, 2025 and the terms and conditions of the
remuneration payable to him.

Dr. Shah was President and CEO of GE Capital India from 200914, where he led the transformation of the business, including
a turnaround of its SBI Card joint venture. His career at GE
spanned 14 years, during which he held several leadership
positions at GE Capital’s US and global units. As Director,
Global Mortgage, he worked across 33 countries to drive
growth and manage risk. As Senior Vice President (Marketing
and Product Development) at GE Mortgage Insurance, he led
various growth initiatives and played a key role in preparing
the business for an IPO, as a spinoff from GE. In his initial years
with GE, Dr. Shah also led Strategy, eCommerce and Sales
Force Effectiveness and had the unique experience of running
a dot-com business within GE. Dr. Shah also received GE’s
prestigious Lewis Latimer Award for outstanding utilisation
of Six Sigma in developing a “Digital Cockpit.”

The Members at the said meeting had approved basic salary
to Dr. Anish Shah as Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer in the scale of Rs. 18,00,000 to Rs. 30,00,000 per
month with effect from 2nd April, 2021 to 31st March, 2025
(both days inclusive) and perquisites and Performance Pay
not exceeding 200% and 150% of the Annual Basic Salary
respectively.
Taking into consideration the intrinsic growth and performance
of the Company under the strategic guidance and leadership
of Dr. Shah as Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company and based on the recommendation
of Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(“GNRC”), the Board of Directors of the Company at its
Meeting held on 26th May, 2023, approved revision in the
terms of remuneration of Dr. Anish Shah by increasing the
scale of basic salary and performance pay, as follows:

He has diverse experience with global businesses beyond
GE. He led Bank of America's US Debit Products business,
where he launched an innovative rewards program, led
numerous initiatives in payment technology and worked
closely with various teams across the Bank to enhance
value for the customer.

Basic Salary Scale:

As a Strategy Consultant at Bain & Company in Boston, he
worked across multiple industries, including banking, oil rigs,
paper, paint, steam boilers and medical equipment. His first role
was with Citibank in Mumbai, where he issued bank guarantees
and letters of credit as Assistant Manager, Trade Services.

Rs. 30,00,000 to Rs. 55,00,000 per month with effect from
1st August, 2023 to 31st March, 2025.
Performance Pay:
Performance Pay based on his performance and performance
of the Company to an amount not exceeding 235% of the
Annual Basic Salary from the Financial Year 2022-23 to
Financial Year 2024-25.

Directorships and Committee positions:
Dr. Anish Shah is the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Chairman of Mahindra
& Mahindra Financial Services Limited and Mahindra Logistics
Limited, Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director of
Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, Tech Mahindra
Limited, Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited, Additional
Director of Tech Mahindra Foundation and Director and Senior
Vice President of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce
& Industry (FICCI). Dr. Anish Shah, as Managing Director &
CEO of the Company serves as a Non-Executive Director
on the Board of other subsidiaries and associate(s) of the
Company, in accordance with fulfilment of his role of having
full oversight of all business sectors of the Mahindra Group.

All other terms and conditions relating to his appointment
and remuneration as approved earlier by the Members
remain unchanged and continue to be effective.
Profile:
Dr. Shah has completed 53 years of age.
Dr. Shah holds a Ph.D from Carnegie Mellon’s Tepper School of
Business where his doctoral thesis was in the field of Corporate
Governance. He also received a Masters degree from Carnegie
Mellon and has a postgraduate diploma in Management from
the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. He has
received various scholarships, including the William Latimer
Mellon Scholarship, Industry Scholarship at IIMA, National
Talent Search and Sir Dorabji Tata Trust.

Dr. Anish Shah is a Member of the following Board
Committees:

Dr. Shah is the Managing Director and CEO of Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited. His role as Group CEO includes oversight
of all Group businesses, which employ 260,000+ associates
across 20 industries and 100+ countries. His primary focus
is on nurturing a purpose-driven organization, establishing
tech leadership in each industry and value creation
across businesses.
18

Sr. Name of the
No. Company

Name of the Committee

Position
held

1.

Risk Management
Committee
Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee
Sale of Assets Committee

Member

Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited

Member
Member

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Sr. Name of the
No. Company

Name of the Committee

Position
held

2.

Mahindra &
Mahindra Financial
Services Limited

Nomination &
Remuneration Committee

Member

Strategic Investment
Committee

Member

3.

Mahindra Lifespace
Developers Limited

Nomination &
Remuneration Committee

Member

4.

Tech Mahindra
Limited

Investment Committee

Member

Nomination &
Remuneration Committee

Member

Mahindra Holidays
& Resorts India
Limited

Nomination &
Remuneration Committee

Member

6.

Mahindra Logistics
Limited

Nomination &
Remuneration Committee

Member

7.

Federation of
Indian Chambers
of Commerce and
Industry (FICCI)

Executive Board

Member

Organisation and Finance
Committee

Member

Audit Committee

Member

Membership Screening
Committee

Member

Steering Committee

Member

National Executive
Committee

Member

5.

payable to Dr. Anish Shah is being placed before the Members
at the Annual General Meeting for their approval by way of
Special Resolution.
The additional information as required by Schedule V to
the Act had been provided in the explanatory statement to
Resolution No. 8 of the Notice of the 74th AGM and shall
remain same, except to the extent being updated and as
provided below:
I.

(i)	
Financial performance based on given
indicators – as per audited financial results for
the year ended 31st March, 2023:
Particulars

II.

Dr. Shah holds 1,88,882 Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company.
During the year 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023, 9 Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Dr. Shah had
attended all the Meetings.

Rs. in crores

Gross Turnover & Other Income

87,505.43

Net profit as per Statement of Profit &
Loss (After Tax)

6,548.64

Computation of Net Profit in accordance
with section 198 of the Companies Act,
2013

6,095.26

Net Worth

42,858.80

Information about the appointee:
(i)

 ast remuneration during the financial year
P
ended 31st March, 2023: Rs. 12.47 crores
excluding the perquisite value of ESOPs exercised
and Rs. 16.44 Crores including the perquisite value
of ESOPs exercised.

(ii)

Remuneration proposed:

		
Scale of Salary: Basic salary in the scale of
Rs. 30,00,000 to Rs. 55,00,000 per month with
effect from 1st August, 2023 till the remaining
period of his tenure as Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer i.e. till 31st March, 2025.

The Board is of the view that Dr. Shah’s knowledge and
experience continues to be of immense benefit and value
to the Company and based on the Company’s performance
and the individual performance, and pursuant to the
recommendations of the GNRC, recommends the revision in
the terms of remuneration of Dr. Anish Shah to the Members.

		Performance Pay: Performance Pay based on
his performance and performance of the Company
not exceeding 235% of the Annual Basic Salary
from the Financial Year 2022-23 to Financial Year
2024-25.

Members are requested to note that 50% of the Performance
Pay annually, payable to Dr. Anish Shah, is based on the Group
Corporate Office Scorecard comprising of Consolidated Sector
Balance Scorecards, Return on Equity, Earnings Per Share,
MCARES, Group Level ESG Performance Index and such other
parameters as may be decided by the Company from time to
time. ESG Performance Index has the following parameters:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

General Information:

		It is proposed to authorise the Board (which term
shall be deemed to include any duly authorised
Committee thereof, for the time being exercising
the powers conferred on the Board by this
Resolution) to revise the basic salary payable to
Dr. Shah, within the above-mentioned scale of
salary and decide on the performance pay within
235% of the Annual Basic Salary as mentioned
above. Notice period applicable to a Whole-time
Director of the Company is six months. There is no
separate provision for payment of Severance Fees.

Greening ourselves (Carbon Neutral by 2040)
Decarbonizing Our Industry
Rejuvenating Nature
Nanhi Kali
Women Empowerment
Diversity & Inclusion
Governance

(iii)	
Comparative remuneration profile with respect
to industry, size of the Company, profile of the
position and person (in case of expatriates the
relevant details would be with respect to the
country of his origin)

Pursuant to sections 196, 197, 198 and all other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 ("the Act") and the
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
Personnel) Rules, 2014 [including any statutory modification(s)
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] read
with Schedule V of the Act, the revision in remuneration

		Taking into consideration the size of the Company,
the profile of Dr. Shah, the responsibilities shouldered
by him and the industry benchmarks, the revised

19

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

remuneration proposed to be paid is commensurate
with the remuneration packages paid to similar
senior level counterpart(s) in other companies.

and Farm Sector since Mr. Jejurikar has taken over as the
Executive Director of the Automotive and Farm sectors and
based on the recommendation of Governance, Nomination
and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC"), the Board of
Directors of the Company at its Meeting held on 26th May,
2023, approved revision in the terms of remuneration of
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar by increasing the scale of basic salary
and performance pay, as follows:

(iv)	Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly
with the Company, or relationship with the
managerial personnel, if any:
		Besides the remuneration proposed to be paid to
him, Dr. Shah does not have any other pecuniary
relationship with the Company or relationship with
the managerial personnel.

Basic Salary Scale:
Rs. 26,00,000 to Rs. 48,00,000 per month with effect from
1st August, 2023 to 31st March, 2025

III. Disclosures:

Performance Pay:

	Brief resume of Dr. Shah, nature of his expertise in
specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships
between directors inter-se, name of listed entities and
other companies in which he holds directorships and
memberships/chairmanships of Board Committees,
shareholding in the Company, as stipulated under SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on
General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company
Secretaries of India are stated herein. Some of these
details are also provided in the Corporate Governance
Report forming part of the Annual Report.

Performance Pay based on his performance and performance
of the Company to an amount not exceeding 235% of the
Annual Basic Salary from the Financial Year 2022-23 to
Financial Year 2024-25.
All other terms and conditions relating to his appointment
and remuneration as approved earlier by the Members
remain unchanged and continue to be effective.
Based on the recommendation of GNRC, the Board of
Directors at its Meeting held on 15th March, 2023, re‑designated
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as Executive Director and CEO (Auto and
Farm Sector) of the Company with effect from 15th March,
2023 upto his current term i.e. 31st March, 2025.

 e Explanatory Statement attached to Resolution No. 8
Th
passed by the Members at the 74th Annual General Meeting of
the Company held on 7th August, 2020 and further modified
by the Explanatory Statement attached to Resolution No. 8 of
this Annual General Meeting may be considered as a written
Memorandum setting out terms, conditions and limits of
remuneration of Dr. Anish Shah as Managing Director & CEO of
the Company in terms of section 190 of the Act.

Profile:
Mr. Jejurikar has completed 58 years of age. Mr. Jejurikar is
an MBA from S.P. Jain Institute of Management and Research
and had attended the Advanced Management Program at The
Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. He was awarded
the British Chevening Scholarship to study at the Manchester
Business School, UK.

 ave and except Dr. Shah, and his relatives to the extent of
S
their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of
the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of the
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at
Item No. 8 of the Notice. Dr. Shah is not related to any other
Director / KMP of the Company.

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar is Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) of the Company and serves on the
Boards of other Mahindra Group companies in India as well
as overseas.
Mr. Jejurikar has diverse experience across Packaged Goods,
Advertising, Media, Automotive and Farm Equipment. He
joined Mahindra in 2000 as Vice President – Marketing
for Automotive Sector. He was then appointed Executive
Vice President – Sales & Marketing and went to become
the Managing Director of Mahindra Renault. Mr. Jejurikar
became Chief of Operations of the Automotive Sector and in
2010 he was appointed Chief Executive for the Automotive
Division and Member of the Group Executive Board.

 e Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at
Th
Item No. 8 of the Notice for approval of the Members.
ITEM NO. 9
Background & Proposal
The Members of the Company at the Seventy-Fourth Annual
General Meeting of the Company held on 7th August, 2020
(“74th AGM”), had approved the appointment of Mr. Rajesh
Jejurikar (DIN: 00046823) as Whole-time Director of the
Company designated as Executive Director (Automotive and
Farm Sectors) of the Company for a period of 5 years with
effect from 1st April, 2020 to 31st March, 2025, and the
terms and conditions of the remuneration payable to him.

Mr. Jejurikar became President of the Farm Equipment
Sector in 2015.
Mr. Jejurikar serves on the Governing Council of S P Jain
Institute of Management and Research. He has represented
Tractor Manufacturers Association (TMA) in India as its
President on the National Council of The Confederation of
Indian Industry (CII) in 2016, 2017. He was also a Member of
the CII National Council on Agriculture.

The Members at the said meeting had approved basic
salary to Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar in the scale of Rs. 12,00,000
to Rs. 26,00,000 per month with effect from 1st April, 2020
to 31st March, 2025 (both days inclusive) and perquisites and
Performance Pay not exceeding 200% and 150% of the
Annual Basic Salary respectively.

Mr. Jejurikar has been conferred with the prestigious
'Autocar Person of the Year - 2023' award. The award
recognizes individuals who have contributed significantly
to their company and the industry. Mr. Jejurikar was
recognised for scripting the successful turnaround of the
Mahindra Automotive business leading to gaining revenue

Taking into consideration the intrinsic growth and
performance of the Company and specifically the Auto
20

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

market leadership and charting the ambitious future-ready
EV roadmap. He was also honoured by AsiaOne magazine as
the “Global Indian of the Year 2020-21”.

The additional information as required by Schedule V to
the Act had been provided in the explanatory statement to
Resolution No. 10 of the Notice of the 74th AGM and shall
remain same, except to the extent being updated and as
provided below:

Directorships and Committee positions:
Mr. Jejurikar is the Chairman of Swaraj Engines Limited, Mahindra
Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l., Mahindra USA Inc.,
Mahindra Automotive North America Inc., Automobili Pininfarina
Gmbh and Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co. Ltd.
He is an Executive Director & CEO (Auto & Farm Sector) of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Director of Mahindra Electric
Automobile Limited and Classic Legends Private Limited. He is
also an Independent Director of Aliaxis SA.

I.

General Information:
(i)

Particulars

Gross Turnover & Other Income
Net profit as per Statement of Profit
& Loss (After Tax)
Computation of Net Profit in
accordance with section 198 of the
Companies Act, 2013

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar is a Chairman/Member of the following
Board Committees:
Sr. Name of the
No. Company

Name of the Committee

Position
Held

1.

Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited

Risk Management
Committee

Member

2.

Swaraj Engines
Limited

Nomination & Remuneration
Committee

Member

3.

Classic Legends
Private Limited

Nomination & Remuneration
Committee

Chairman

4.

Mahindra Electric Audit Committee
Automobile
Risk Committee
Limited
Environmental, Social
and Governance Matters
Committee

 inancial performance based on given indicators
F
– as per audited financial results for the year
ended 31st March, 2023:

Net Worth
II.

Rs. in crores
87,505.43
6,548.64
6,095.26

42,858.80

Information about the appointee:
(i)	
Past remuneration during the financial year
ended 31st March, 2023: Rs. 9.73 crores excluding
the perquisite value of ESOPs exercised and Rs.
12.74 crores including the perquisite value of
ESOPs exercised.

Chairman

(ii)

Member

Remuneration proposed:

		Basic Salary Scale:
		Rs. 26,00,000 to Rs. 48,00,000 per month with
effect from 1st August, 2023 to 31st March, 2025.

Member

		Performance Pay:
		
Performance Pay based on his performance and
performance of the Company not exceeding 235%
of the Annual Basic Salary from the Financial Year
2022-23 to Financial Year 2024-25.

Mr. Jejurikar holds 78,595 Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company.
During the year 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023, 9 Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Mr. Jejurikar
attended 8 Board Meetings.

		It is proposed to authorise the Board (which term
shall be deemed to include any duly authorised
Committee thereof, for the time being exercising the
powers conferred on the Board by this Resolution)
to revise the basic salary payable to Mr. Jejurikar,
within the above-mentioned scale of salary and
decide on the performance pay within 235% of
the Annual Basic Salary as mentioned above.
Notice period applicable to a Whole-time Director
of the Company is six months. There is no separate
provision for payment of Severance Fees.

The Board is of the view that Mr. Jejurikar’s knowledge and
experience continues to be of immense benefit and value to
the Company and based on the Company’s performance and
the individual performance, pursuant to the recommendations
of the GNRC, recommends the revision in remuneration to
the Members.
Members are requested to note that 50% of the
Performance Pay annually, payable to Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, is
based on the Business Scorecard comprising of Consolidated
Revenue, Consolidated Profit Before Tax, Consolidated Free
Cash Flow, Return on Capital Employed, MCARES, MCAPS
and such other parameters as may be decided by the
Company from time to time.

(iii)	
Comparative remuneration profile with respect
to industry, size of the Company, profile of the
position and person (in case of expatriates the
relevant details would be with respect to the
country of his origin)

Pursuant to sections 196, 197, 198 and all other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 ("the Act") and
the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 [including any statutory
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being
in force] read with Schedule V of the Act, the revision in
remuneration payable to Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar is being placed
before the Members at the Annual General Meeting for their
approval by way of Special Resolution.

		Taking into consideration the size of the Company,
the profile of Mr. Jejurikar, the responsibilities
shouldered by him and the industry benchmarks,
the revised remuneration proposed to be paid is
commensurate with the remuneration packages
paid to similar senior level counterpart(s) in other
companies.

21

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

(iv) P
ecuniary relationship directly or indirectly
with the Company, or relationship with the
managerial personnel, if any:

Directors in the event of:
a.	Two consecutive defaults in payment of interest to the
debenture holders; or

		Besides the remuneration proposed to be paid to
him, Mr. Jejurikar does not have any other pecuniary
relationship with the Company or relationship with
the managerial personnel.

b.

Default in creation of security for debentures; or

c.

Default in redemption of debentures.

The said Amendment requires that the companies whose
debt securities are listed as on the date of publication of
the Amendment in the official gazette, shall amend their
Articles of Association to comply with the above mentioned
provision, on or before 30 th September, 2023.

III. Disclosures:
	Brief resume of Mr. Jejurikar, nature of his expertise
in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships
between directors inter-se, name of listed entities and
other companies in which he holds directorships and
memberships/chairmanships of Board Committees,
shareholding in the Company, as stipulated under SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on General
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries
of India are stated herein. Some of these details are also
provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming
part of the Annual Report.

Therefore, in compliance with the above Amendment, and
as the Company has listed its debt securities, the Board
has considered and approved the amendment in Articles of
Association (“AOA”) of the Company subject to the approval
of Shareholders of the Company, by substituting the existing
Article 104 as under:
	'In the event of any default committed by the Company
as mentioned in clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation
15 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture
Trustees) Regulations, 1993, the debenture trustee shall
have the right, to appoint one or more Director or Directors
[Nominee Director(s)] on the Board of Directors of the
Company, and to remove from office any Nominee Director
so appointed and to appoint another in his/her place or in
the place a Director so appointed who resigns or otherwise
vacates his office, in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013 or any other applicable law, regulatory
or listing requirements and terms and conditions of such
debenture documents.

The Explanatory Statement attached to Resolution No. 10
passed by the Members at the 74th Annual General Meeting of
the Company held on 7th August, 2020 and further modified
by the Explanatory Statement attached to Resolution No.
9 of this Annual General Meeting may be considered as a
written Memorandum setting out terms, conditions and
limits of remuneration of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as Executive
Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) in terms of section
190 of the Act.

	Any such appointment or removal shall be made in writing
and shall be served at the registered office of the Company.

Save and except Mr. Jejurikar, and his relatives to the extent
of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none
of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of
the Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set
out at Item No. 9 of the Notice. Mr. Jejurikar is not related
to any other Director / KMP of the Company.

	The Nominee Director(s) shall neither be required to hold
any qualification share nor be liable to retire by rotation.
	The Nominee Director(s) shall continue to hold office as long
as the default in relation to the debt subsists.
	The Nominee Director(s) may also be appointed as a
member of any Committee of the Board and shall not be
liable for any act or omission of the Company.

The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at
Item No. 9 of the Notice for approval of the Members.

	The Nominee Director shall be entitled to all the rights and
privileges of other non-executive directors and the sitting
fees, expenses as payable to other directors on the Board
and any other fees, commission, monies or remuneration
in any form payable to the non-executive directors, which
shall be to the account of the Company.'

ITEM NO. 10
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’)
vide its Notification No. SEBI/LAD-NRO/GN/2023/119
dated 2nd February, 2023, has amended Regulation 23(6)
of the SEBI (Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities)
Regulations, 2021 (“Amendment Notification”).

In terms of section 5, 14 and other applicable provisions
of the Companies Act, 2013, the consent of the Members
by way of Special Resolution is required to approve the
amendment in the Articles of Association of the Company.

As per the Amendment Notification, an issuer company
needs to ensure that its Articles of Association require its
Board of Directors to appoint the person nominated by the
debenture trustee(s) as a director on its Board of Directors
in case of default under Regulation 15(1)(e) of the SEBI
(Debenture Trustees) Regulations, 1993 (“Amendment”).

A copy of the amended AOA would be available electronically
for inspection, without any fee, to the Members in accordance
with Note No. 8 of the Notes attached to this Notice upto
the date of the AGM of the Company.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of
the Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set
out at Item No. 10 of the Notice.

Further, Regulation 15(1)(e) of SEBI (Debenture Trustees)
Regulation, 1993, mandates that the Company as an issuer
of non-convertible securities appoints the person nominated
by the Debenture Trustee as a director on its Board of

22

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

i.e. Rs. 1,000 crores (Rupees one thousand crores) being
the lower of Rs. 1,000 crores (Rupees one thousand crores)
or 10% (ten per cent) of the annual consolidated turnover
of the Company as per the last audited financial statements
of the Company.

The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at
Item No. 10 of the Notice for approval of the Members.
ITEM NOS. 11, 12 AND 13
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’), vide
its notification dated 9 th November, 2021, has notified
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
(Sixth Amendment) Regulations, 2021 (‘Amendments’)
introducing amendments to the provisions pertaining to
the Related Party Transactions under the SEBI (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015 (‘Listing Regulations’).

Further, the Members of the Company at the
Seventy-Sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company
held on 5th August, 2022 (“76th AGM”), had approved
Material Related Party Transactions of the Company with
certain Related Parties viz. Swaraj Engines Limited, Classic
Legends Private Limited and CIE Automotive India Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited),
with the monetary limit not exceeding 2% of the annual
consolidated turnover of the Company or Rs. 2,000 Crores
whichever is higher, per annum for each of the financial
years (FY) from FY 2022-23 to FY 2026-27 i.e., five financial
years. However, the estimated value of the contract(s)/
arrangement(s)/ agreement(s)/ transaction(s) of the
Company with the aforesaid Related Parties is anticipated
to exceed the aforesaid monetary limit approved by the
Members at the 76th AGM.

The aforesaid Amendments inter-alia included replacing
of threshold i.e. 10% (ten per cent) of the listed entity’s
consolidated turnover, for determination of Material Related
Party Transactions requiring Shareholders’ prior approval
with the threshold of lower of Rs. 1,000 crores (Rupees
one thousand crores) or 10% (ten per cent) of the annual
consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last
audited financial statements of the listed entity, with effect
from 1 st April, 2022.

Members may please note that the Company and its
subsidiaries and associates have been undertaking such
transactions of similar nature with related parties in the
past financial years, in the ordinary course of business and
on arm's length after obtaining requisite approvals, including
from the Audit Committee of the Company/subsidiaries/
associates, as per the requirements of the applicable law.

Under the Listing Regulations, in addition to the approval
and reporting for transactions by the Company with its own
Related Party(ies), the scope extends to transactions by
the Company with Related Party(ies) of any subsidiary(ies)
of the Company or transactions by a subsidiary(ies) of
the Company with its own Related Party(ies) or Related
Party(ies) of the Company or Related Party(ies) of any
subsidiary(ies) of the Company.

The maximum annual value of the proposed transactions
with the related parties is estimated based on the
Company’s current transactions with them and future
business projections.

As per Regulation 23(4) of the Listing Regulations, all
Material Related Party Transactions shall require prior
approval of the shareholders, even if the transactions are
in the ordinary course of business and at an arm’s length
basis. Given the nature of the Company’s presence in
multiple businesses, the Company works closely with its
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to achieve its
business objectives and enters into various operational
transactions with its related parties, from time to time, in
the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis.

SEBI, vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2022/40
dated 30 th March, 2022, has clarified that a Related Party
Transaction approved by the Audit Committee prior to
1 st April, 2022, which continues beyond this date and if it
becomes material as per the materiality threshold provided
above, requires approval of the shareholders in the first
Annual General Meeting to be held after 1 st April, 2022.
Considering the quantum of transactions, reduced
thresholds of materiality and the extended framework
for related party transactions under the amended Listing
Regulations, approval of the Members is sought as per the
requirements of Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations
read with the aforesaid SEBI Circular dated 30 th March,
2022, for the following specific Material Related Party
Transactions, details of which are mentioned herein in
accordance with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2021/662 dated 22nd November, 2021:

Amongst the transactions that the Company enters
into with its related parties, the estimated value of the
contract(s)/ arrangement(s)/ agreement(s)/ transaction(s)
of the Company with the Related Parties mentioned below
and also the ‘Related Party Transactions’ under
Regulation 2(1) (zc) of the Listing Regulations pertaining
to a subsidiary of the Company, may exceed the threshold
of Material Related Party Transactions within the
meaning of Regulation 23(1) of the Listing Regulations

23

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

1)

For Item No. 11
Details of the Material Related Party Transactions entered / to be entered between the Company and its
Subsidiaries/ Associate:

Sr.
No.

Name of the Related Party

Nature of relationship with the Company, Monetary Value per Related Party
including nature of its concern or
interest (financial or otherwise)

1.

a.

Mahindra and Mahindra Financial
Services Limited

Subsidiary

Not exceeding 4% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the
Company# or Rs. 4,000 Crores, whichever is higher, per annum

b.

Mahindra Electric Automobile
Limited*

Subsidiary

Not exceeding 9.5% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the
Company# or Rs. 9,500 Crores, whichever is higher, per annum

c.

Mahindra Last Mile Mobility
Limited**

Subsidiary

Not exceeding 6% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the
Company# or Rs. 6,000 Crores, whichever is higher, per annum

d.

Mahindra Susten Private
Limited***

Subsidiary

Not exceeding 1.5% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the
Company# or Rs. 1,500 Crores, whichever is higher, per annum

e.

Sustainable Energy Infra Trust@

Associate

Not exceeding 2% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the
Company# or Rs. 2,000 Crores, whichever is higher, per annum

*	Will cease to be a wholly owned subsidiary upon investment by British International Investment PLC ("BII") in equity shares of Mahindra Electric
Automobile Limited ("MEAL").
The above mentioned monetary value per annum covers transactions with MEAL as a non wholly-owned subsidiary.
**	Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited or such other name as may be approved by the Registrar of Companies ("MLMML"), is in the process of being
incorporated. MLMML will cease to be a wholly owned subsidiary upon investment by International Finance Corporation ("IFC") in Compulsorily
Convertible Preference Shares of MLMML.
	The above mentioned monetary value per annum covers transactions with MLMML as a non wholly-owned subsidiary.
***	Mahindra Susten Private Limited ("MSPL") is a subsidiary of Mahindra Holdings Limited ("MHL"). MHL is wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company and
thus, MSPL is a subsidiary of the Company.
@	Sustainable Energy Infra Trust (“SEIT”), is a proposed Infrastructure Investment Trust ("InvIT") with MSPL and Ontario Teachers' as Sponsors, which is
under the process of being registered with Securities and Exchange Board of India ("SEBI"). The Company directly is expected to hold up to 26% of the
total unit holding of SEIT, after the primary and secondary transactions are completed, as part of listing of SEIT.
#	The Annual Consolidated Turnover shall be as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.
2.

Type, Nature, material terms and particulars of the contract or arrangements
2a. Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services Limited ("MMFSL"):

Maximum Amount in any
Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)
Monetary
values p.a.
Rs. in crores

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest, commission and other related income / expenses;

2,000

2.0%

b)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease of vehicles, including passenger and commercial vehicles,
electric vehicles, tractors, implements, farm machinery etc., business assets including property, plant and
equipment, Intangible assets, transfer of technology to meet the business objectives and requirements;

1,000

1.0%

c)	Financial services income/expenses relating to vehicle financing, leasing & associated services, bill
discounting, subvention, arrangement fees etc.

600

0.60%

d)	Sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud,
IOT and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, receipt of royalty / brand
usage, manpower, management and management support services, owned / third party services and
reimbursements;

200

0.20%

e)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements.

200

0.20%

Note: The value of corporate actions, if any, from MMFSL including receipt of dividends, tendering securities as a part of buyback offer, receipt of bonus securities,
subscribing to rights issue, etc. by the Company that are uniformly offered/applicable to all shareholders in proportion to their shareholding, would be as approved
by the Board of Directors / Shareholders of MMFSL. However, the total value of transactions between the Company and MMFSL including dividend received will not
breach the overall limit for each of the financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 4,000 crores and an amount which
is 4% of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.

24

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

2b. Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (“MEAL”):

Maximum Amount in any Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)
Monetary
values p.a.
Rs. in crores

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Purchase / Sale of any goods and material including passenger / commercial vehicles, electric vehicles,
electric kits, assemblies, components, castings, forgings, sheet metal, engines, engine components,
tractors, implements, four-wheelers, spares, accessories and other related components/parts;

1,500

1.5%

b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest, commission and other related income / expenses;

4,500

4.5%

c)	Toll Manufacturing services, Product development services, Shared services & other services including
sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud,
IOT and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, Licensing of technology /
intellectual property rights, receipt of royalty / brand usage, manpower, management and management
support services, owned / third party services and reimbursements;

2,500

2.5%

d)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease of business assets including property, plant and equipment,
Intangible assets, transfer of technology to meet the business objectives and requirements;

900

0.9%

e)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/ requirements.

100

0.1%

Note: The value of corporate actions, if any, from MEAL including receipt of dividends, tendering securities as a part of buyback offer, receipt of bonus securities,
subscribing to rights issue, etc. by the Company that are uniformly offered/applicable to all shareholders in proportion to their shareholding, would be as approved by
the Board of Directors / Shareholders of MEAL. However, the total value of transactions between the Company and MEAL including dividend received will not breach
the overall limit for each of the financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 9,500 crores and an amount which is 9.5%
of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.
2c. Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited (“MLMML”):

Maximum Amount in any Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Purchase / Sale of any goods and material including passenger / commercial vehicles, electric vehicles,
electric kits, Battery pack, Power electronic pack, Drivetrain, assemblies, components, castings, forgings,
sheet metal, engines, engine components, tractors, implements, four-wheelers, spares, accessories and
other related components/parts;

3,000

3.0%

b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest, commission and other related income / expenses;

1,000

1.0%

c)	Purchase/sale of any services including Toll manufacturing services, Product development services,
shared services, sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT
assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, Licensing of
technology / intellectual property rights, receipt of royalty / brand usage, manpower, management and
management support services, owned / third party services and other services, and reimbursements;

1,500

1.5%

d)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease of business assets including property, plant and equipment,
Intangible assets, transfer of technology to meet the business objectives and requirements;

300

0.3%

e)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements.

200

0.2%

Monetary
values p.a.
Rs. in crores

Note: The value of corporate actions, if any, from MLMML including receipt of dividends, tendering securities as a part of buyback offer, receipt of bonus securities,
subscribing to rights issue, etc. by the Company that are uniformly offered/applicable to all shareholders in proportion to their shareholding, would be as approved
by the Board of Directors / Shareholders of MLMML. However, the total value of transactions between the Company and MLMML including dividend received will not
breach the overall limit for each of the financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 6,000 crores and an amount which
is 6% of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.

25

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

2d. Mahindra Susten Private Limited (“MSPL”):

Maximum Amount in any Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)
Monetary
values p.a.
Rs. in crores

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Purchase of power/EPC from MSPL and maintenance costs/charges for solar water pumps;

150

0.15%

b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest, commission and other related income / expenses;

1,200

1.20%

c)	Sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud,
IOT and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, receipt of royalty / brand
usage, manpower, management and management support services, owned / third party services and
reimbursements;

25

0.025%

d)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements.

125

0.125%

Note: The value of corporate actions, if any, from MSPL including receipt of dividends, tendering securities as a part of buyback offer, receipt of bonus securities, subscribing to
rights issue, etc. by the Company that are uniformly offered/applicable to all shareholders in proportion to their shareholding, would be as approved by the Board of Directors/
Shareholders of MSPL. However, the total value of transactions between the Company and MSPL including dividend received will not breach the overall limit for each of the
financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 1,500 crores and an amount which is 1.5% of the annual consolidated turnover as
per the last audited financial statements of the Company.
2e. Sustainable Energy Infra Trust (“SEIT”):

Maximum Amount in any Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Sale/transfer of any security(ies) held by the Company in its subsidiaries i.e. equity, debt or otherwise to SEIT;

850

0.85%

b)

650

0.65%

c)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest, commission and other related income / expenses;

200

0.20%

d) Any transfer/sharing of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/ requirements.

300

0.30%

Monetary
values p.a.
Rs. in crores

Infusion by way of primary investment in SEIT;

Note: The value of receipt of dividends or distribution, etc., if any, from SEIT by the Company that are uniformly offered/applicable to all unit holders in proportion to their unit
holding, would be as approved by the Board of the Investment Manager of SEIT. However, the total value of transactions between the Company and SEIT including dividend
received will not breach the overall limit for each of the financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 2,000 crores and an amount
which is 2% of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.
The proposed transactions mentioned in point 2a to 2e above, would be purely operational / integral part of the operations of the Company and in ordinary course
of business with terms and conditions that are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates.
3.

Any advance paid or received for the contract or arrangement, if any
Based on the nature of transaction, advance for part or full amount of the transaction / arrangement could be paid / received in the ordinary course of business.

4.

Tenure
Existing (as on 1st April, 2023) and new Contracts / arrangements / agreements / transactions for a period of 5 years i.e. upto 31st March, 2028.

5.

Justification for why the proposed transaction is in the interest of the Company
5a. Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services Limited (“MMFSL”):

5b. Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (“MEAL”):

MMFSL is a leading non-banking finance company which provides loans including vehicle
financing in the normal course of business and for the purpose and to meet its working
capital requirements borrows funds through various sources including issue of nonconvertible debentures (“NCDs”), availing term loans, bank loans, cash credit, fixed
deposits and availing of inter-corporate deposits from the group companies. The total
borrowings of MMFSL as on 31 st March, 2023 aggregated to Rs. 74,945.86 Crores.

MEAL has been incorporated on 25th October, 2022 to undertake the 4 (Four) Wheel
Passenger Electric Vehicles Business of the Company.

fee based income from the Company.

The above transactions will enable MEAL to significantly leverage the broader
manufacturing capabilities, product development, design organizations along with the
ecosystem of suppliers, dealers, and financiers of the Company. The funds infused by
the Company and BII will be utilized by MEAL primarily to create and market a worldclass Electric SUV portfolio with advanced technologies.

British International Investment (BII), the UK’s Development Finance Institution and
impact investor and the Company had executed a binding agreement to invest up
to Rs. 1,925 crores each into MEAL. BII will invest up to Rs 1,925 crores in the form
of compulsory convertible instruments at a valuation of up to Rs. 70,070 crores,
The proposition is enabling which will help MMFSL to further augment its sources of funds. resulting in 2.75% to 4.76% ownership for BII in the MEAL.
MMFSL has entered the leasing business, for which it needs to purchase vehicles The total capital infusion for MEAL is envisaged to be approximately Rs. 11,000 crores/
from Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), including the Company which has USD 1.4 billion between FY24 and FY27 for the planned product portfolio. The
emerged as a significant player in the auto industry. Purchase of vehicles from the Company and BII will work jointly to bring other like-minded investors in MEAL to
match the funding requirement in a phased manner. BII’s investment is designed to
Company helps MMFSL to grow its leasing book.
As an NBFC, MMFSL provides various financial services in the areas relating to vehicle significantly accelerate the availability and adoption of electric vehicles in India and
financing, leasing & associated services, bill discounting, etc. MMFSL earns interest / other markets served by the Company.
MMFSL is part of the larger Mahindra group. It benefits from availing high quality
services from group resources and infrastructure instead of investing on its own.
These transactions ensure consistent flow of desired services without interruptions,
thus creating operational synergies, cost optimisation, optimal utilisation of resources
and business efficiencies.

26

Onboarding BII as an investor will also help the Company to leverage their focus and
expertise in ESG and Climate Change.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

5c. Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited (“MLMML”):

5d. Mahindra Susten Private Limited (“MSPL”):

Mahindra Last Mile Mobility (LMM) has ended Financial Year 2022-23 as the No.1
electric 3-wheeler manufacturer. LMM recently, did the ground-breaking for a new
manufacturing unit at its existing plant in Zaheerabad, Telangana. Electric 3-wheelers
are one of the leading contributors in automobile electrification in the country with
their unmatched Total Cost of Ownership, excellent savings, noiseless and pollutionfree drive. These EVs will help accelerate India's emission goals of going carbon neutral
by 2070.

MSPL is Mahindra Group's renewable energy platform, which includes one of the
leading renewable engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") businesses
(capacity constructed of over 4.3 GWp over its tenure of 11+years), an independent
power producer ("IPP") business with around 1.54 GWp of operational solar plants
spread across several states in India, and plan to have a significant solar development
pipeline. The IPP solar portfolio is spread across 5 key states in India and is backed by
long-term power purchase agreements — Over 95% of assets are backed by central
Being the market leaders in this segment, the Company through MLMML has an government or equivalent entities and the remaining with distribution companies
opportunity to drive higher EV penetration in this segment and provide a more backed by state governments.
sustainable as well as profitable option to micro-entrepreneurs.
As part of the strategic plan to growth, the IPP business in future MSPL (along with its
In view of the above, the Company had entered into a Subscription Agreement and shareholders) has created a business plan to add over 5.5 GWP of Renewable Energy
Shareholders Agreement with International Finance Corporation (‘IFC’), whereby IFC, in a Assets over the next 5 years. The strategic direction would also be to sell such built
bid to scale up electric three-wheelers and small commercial vehicles (SCVs) that are assets after holding them for about 1 or 2 years post execution to an InvIT being
more affordable, has agreed to invest upto Rs. 600 Crores in the new company being created under MSPL and its shareholders sponsorship.
incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company under the name of Mahindra
Last Mile Mobility Limited (‘MLMML’), in one or more tranches in accordance with the terms
and conditions as stipulated in the aforesaid Agreements, valuing the MLMML at upto Rs.
6,020 crores. MLMML will house the Last Mile Mobility Business of the Company.

During this phase of building Renewable assets, MSPL would need funding as part of
its equity contribution towards these projects and also manage interim funding before
an external funding is tied up for these projects.

Transactions with MSPL are expected to grow in future. Keeping in mind the potential
The Company will also sell/transfer assets and/or Business pertaining to the Last Mile quantum of transactions with MSPL over the next few years, it is proposed to seek
Mobility Business of the Company to MLMML.
approval of the Members for Related Party Transactions entered/to be entered into
MLMML will house the LMM division, including three wheelers (Alfa, Treo, Zor) and four- with MSPL as per the limits stated in point 1d. above.
wheeler SCV (Jeeto).

The above transactions and IFC’s financing will help scale up electric mobility in last
mile connectivity - passenger and cargo segments - while enabling the development
and manufacturing of new generation products in this space.
Electric Vehicles enable vibration and noise free operations, generate higher earnings for
drivers and enable micro-entrepreneurship. The business will further generate employment
for women, driving equality and inclusion while bolstering India’s climate action agenda.
The Company will be benefitted by using its manufacturing facility at Zaheerabad and
Haridwar plant for three wheelers and SCVs. MLMML will be able to utilise the expertise
of the Company for manufacturing, sourcing, etc. This in turn will contribute towards
Mahindra Group synergy. Transactions with MLMML are expected to grow in future.
Keeping in mind the potential quantum of transactions with MLMML over the next few
years, it is proposed to seek approval of the Members for Related Party Transactions
entered/to be entered into with MLMML as per the limits stated in point 1c. above.
5e. Sustainable Energy Infra Trust (“SEIT”):
Setting up of the InvIT is part of the larger partnership between Mahindra Group and Ontario Teachers’ in the renewables energy sector. The partnership will enable the
Company, to unlock value in the Renewable Energy Business, significantly scale up the platform by continuing to invest along with Ontario Teachers' and achieve the twin
objectives of accelerated growth and leadership in ESG. The InvIT also enables additional value unlocking by creating the InvIT platform for monetization to a wider set of
like-minded investors. Further, the InvIT aids in deleveraging by reducing the consolidated debt of the Company.
Besides the specific company-wise justification stated above in point 5a to 5e, the Company benefits through operational synergies, cost optimisation, assurance of product/
service quality, utilising the expertise within the group for manufacturing, sourcing, etc. thereby bringing efficiencies in the businesses, providing enhanced level of user
experience to the consumers of the Company to enable achieve growth objectives, access to and utilisation of strong R&D and design capabilities. Financial assistance would
drive growth in subsidiary's/associate's business and will enable them to innovate, scale up and pursue growth opportunities in a more focused manner.
6.

If the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:
i)

details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed transaction;

The financial assistance / investment would be from own funds / internal accruals
of the Company. The Company would not be incurring indebtedness solely for the
purpose of providing financial assistance / making investment.

ii)	where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give loans, inter- Not applicable, since the Company would not be incurring financial indebtedness
corporate deposits, advances or investments,
specially for giving financial assistance or making investments.
•

nature of indebtedness;

•

cost of funds; and

•

tenure

iii)	Applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest rate and repayment Investments by way of subscription, purchase or otherwise in securities / debt
schedule, whether secured or unsecured; if secured, the nature of security
instruments and / or providing of loans, advances, and guarantees in relation to
above mentioned subsidiaries / SEIT would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Companies Act, 2013. The interest charged will be in compliance with the provisions
of section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013.
The financial assistance in the form of loan / inter-corporate deposit, if any provided,
will be on an arm’s length basis considering the following:i)	The nature and tenor of loan/ICD,
ii)	The opportunity cost for the Company from investment in alternative options, and
iii)

The cost of availing funds for the Company and for the related party

iv)	The purpose for which the funds will be utilised by the ultimate beneficiary of The funds shall be used for operational activities and other business requirements of
such funds pursuant to the related party transaction
the company/SEIT to whom funds are provided and/or for making investment(s) in and/
or providing financial assistance to any of its subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures.

27

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

7.

Details of the Valuation or other external party report (if any)

The related party transactions will be in line with the Company’s Policy on Materiality
of and Dealing with Related Party Transactions. These transactions will be on arm’s
length basis and in the ordinary course of business. The related party transactions will
be supported by the Valuation Report of an Independent valuer, wherever necessary.
In case of SEIT, the external non-related party investors shall determine the value and
the quantum of the InvIT units and will be supported by the valuation report which
shall be made available as per Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure
Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014 (“InvIT Regulations”) at the time of filing of the
final placement memorandum of SEIT with SEBI.

8.

Percentage of the Company’s annual consolidated turnover, for the immediately i.	Rs. 4,000 crores constitutes 3.27% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the
preceding financial year, that is represented by the value of the proposed
Company,
transaction (and for a related party transaction involving a subsidiary, such ii.	Rs. 9,500 crores constitutes 7.76% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the
percentage calculated on the basis of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on a
Company,
standalone basis shall be additionally provided)
iii.	Rs. 6,000 crores constitutes 4.90% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company,
iv.	Rs. 1,500 crores constitutes 1.22% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the
Company and
v.	Rs. 2,000 crores constitutes 1.63% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 st March, 2023.
* Turnover includes Revenue from Operations and Other Income.
Name of the Subsidiary

Rs. 4,000 Crores as a % of
Subsidiary’s Annual Turnover^ on
a Standalone Basis

Mahindra and Mahindra Financial
Services Limited

36%

Name of the Subsidiary

Rs. 9,500 Crores as a % of the
Subsidiary’s Annual Turnover^ on
a Standalone Basis

Mahindra
Limited^^

1,53,424%

Electric

Automobile

Name of the Subsidiary

Rs. 6,000 Crores as a % of the
Subsidiary’s Annual Turnover^ on
a Standalone Basis

Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited

Not Applicable

Name of the Subsidiary

Rs. 1,500 Crores as a % of the
Subsidiary’s Annual Turnover^ on
a Standalone Basis

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

378%

^

T urnover includes Revenue from Operations and Other income. % of
Subsidiary’s Annual Turnover is not applicable for companies which are yet to
generate Revenue from operations.

^^

Incorporated on 25th October, 2022.

Note: The percentage above is based on the Company’s Consolidated Turnover /
Subsidiary’s Standalone Turnover for the FY 2022-23 and the actual percentage shall
depend upon the turnover of the Company/ Subsidiary as the case may be for the
above referred respective financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28.

28

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

9.

Transactions undertaken in previous Financial Year ended 31st March 2023 and 31st March, 2022
Rs. in crores
Sr. No. Name of the Company

Nature of Transactions

FY22

FY23

a.

Mahindra and Mahindra Financial
Services Limited ("MMFSL")*#

Purchase and sale of goods, property, plant & equipment, availing and rendering of
services, trade advances, deputation / sharing of personnel, dividend received, interest
income, royalty received for usage of 'Mahindra' Brand / Trade Name, other income and
expenses, reimbursement received and paid, etc.

277.22

574.67

b.

Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited Sale of property, plant & equipment and other intangible assets, rendering of services,
("MEAL")##
investments, reimbursement received, etc.

NA

2,340.93**

c.

Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited
("MLMML")##

d.

Mahindra
("MSPL")#

602.48

311.68

e.

Sustainable Energy Infra Trust

*

MMFSL had not availed any borrowings from the Company in FY2022 and FY2023. However, MMFSL had availed ICDs from the Company aggregating to
Rs. 1,200 crores from FY 2018 to FY 2020, ranging from 6 days to 1 year, at average interest rate of 8.21%, as per prevailing market rates.

Susten

Private

Not Applicable

Limited Availing and rendering of services, sale of goods, deputation of personnel, intercorporate deposits given, interest income , royalty received for usage of 'Mahindra'
Brand / Trade Name and other income, reimbursement received, etc.
Not Applicable

Besides, the Company had subscribed to NCDs issued by MMFSL on private placement basis aggregating to Rs. 195 Crores from FY 2020 to FY 2021.
While MMFSL has been able to successfully raise funds from the market in the last few years, it may require the support of the Company in the coming years. MMFSL needs
to have an enabling approval in place to resort to fund based support from the Company in the event of market / interest rate uncertainties. This would enable MMFSL to
seamlessly source funds, as and when required in its normal course of business activities.
Considering the above, the approval of Shareholders of the Company is being sought for transactions between the Company and MMFSL for an overall limit for each of the
financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 4,000 crores and an amount which is 4% of the annual consolidated turnover
as per the last audited financial statements of the Company, subject to sub-limits as stated in point no. 2a. above.

2)

**

MEAL is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.

#

The royalty received from MMFSL and MSPL for usage of ‘Mahindra’ Brand/ trade name was Rs. 1.12 lacs in FY22 and Rs. 0.89 lacs in FY23. The royalty received/
receivable from MMFSL and MSPL during each of the financial years 2024-2028, would be well below the permitted statutory ceiling as prescribed under
Regulation 23 (1A) of Listing Regulations i.e. 5% of the annual consolidated turnover of the Company.

##

Royalty would be charged to MEAL and MLMML for usage of ‘Mahindra’ Brand/ trade name from FY24 onwards. The royalty receivable from MEAL and
MLMML during each of the financial years 2024-2028, would be well below the permitted statutory ceiling as prescribed under Regulation 23 (1A) of Listing
Regulations i.e. 5% of the annual consolidated turnover of the Company.

For Item No. 12

Details of the Material Related Party Transactions pertaining to a Subsidiary of the Company:
Sr.
No.

Particulars

Disclosures

1.

Name of the Related Party; Nature of relationship with Name of the
Name of the Related Nature of relationship
Monetary value p.a.
the Subsidiary, including nature of its concern or interest Subsidiary
Party
(financial or otherwise); and Monetary Value
Mahindra Susten Sustainable
Energy MSPL is a subsidiary of Mahindra Not exceeding 3.5% of
Private Limited Infra Trust ("SEIT")
Holdings Limited ("MHL"). MHL is the Annual Consolidated
("MSPL")
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Turnover of the Company#
Company and thus, MSPL is a or Rs. 3,500 Crores, whichsubsidiary of the Company.
ever is higher, per annum
Sustainable Energy Infra Trust
(“SEIT”) is a proposed Infrastructure Investment Trust ("InvIT")
with MSPL and Ontario Teachers'
as Sponsors, which is under the
process of being registered with
SEBI. MSPL is expected to hold approx. 15% of the total unitholding
of SEIT.
# The Annual Consolidated Turnover shall be as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.

2.

Type/Nature, material terms and particulars of the contract or arrangements
Particulars

Maximum Amount in any Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)
Monetary values p.a.
Rs. in crores
(A)

% of Consolidated Turnover as per the last
audited financial statements of the Company for the relevant financial year
(B)

a)

Sale/transfer of any security(ies) held by MSPL in its
subsidiaries i.e. equity, debt or otherwise to SEIT;

2,700

2.7%

b)

Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to
meet its objectives/ requirement including repayment
of obligations by SEIT on behalf of its subsidiaries

800

0.8%

Note: The value of receipt of dividends or distribution, etc. from SEIT to MSPL which is offered/applicable to all unitholders in proportion to their unit holding, cannot be ascertained by the
Company. However, for each of the financial years from 2023-24 to 2027-28, the total value of transactions between MSPL and SEIT including dividend/distributions received will not
breach the overall limit for a financial year which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 3,500 crores and an amount which is 3.5% of the annual consolidated turnover as per the last
audited financial statements of the Company.

29

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

3.

Any advance paid or received for the contract or Based on the nature of transaction, advance for part or full amount of the transaction / arrangement
arrangement, if any
could be paid / received in the ordinary course of business.

4.

Tenure

5.

Justification for why the proposed transaction is in the Setting up of the InvIT is part of the larger partnership between Mahindra Group and Ontario Teachers’ in
interest of the Company
the renewables energy sector. The partnership will enable the Company to unlock value in the Renewable
Energy Business, significantly scale up the platform by continuing to invest along with Ontario Teachers' and achieve the twin objectives of accelerated growth and leadership in ESG. The InvIT also enables
additional value unlocking by creating the InvIT platform for monetization to a wider set of like-minded
investors. Further, the InvIT aids in deleveraging by reducing the consolidated debt of M&M.

6.

If the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:

The tenure is 5 years i.e. upto 31st March, 2028.

i)

details of the source of funds in connection with the MSPL has infused subordinate debt in certain subsidiaries for construction of solar power projects
proposed transaction;
housed in the respective subsidiaries. This subordinate debt is part of the overall Equity contribution
which MSPL is supposed to infuse in the Projects. MSPL has funded this subordinate debt partly via its
internal accruals and partly via Loan from the Company.

ii)

where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make •
or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or
investments,
•
•
nature of indebtedness;
•
cost of funds; and
•
•
tenure

iii)

Applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest Subordinate loans advanced by MSPL to its certain subsidiaries are unsecured loans and are considered
rate and repayment schedule, whether secured or subordinate to existing bank debt. There is no fixed tenure of these loans as repayment will depend on
unsecured; if secured, the nature of security;
meeting of secured loan covenants and approvals of Project secured lenders. The ROI charged on the
loan is 11.5% per annum.

iv)

The purpose for which the funds will be utilised by the MSPL has infused subordinate debt in certain subsidiaries for construction of solar power projects
ultimate beneficiary of such funds pursuant to the housed in the respective subsidiaries, this subordinate debt is part of the overall equity contribution
related party transaction
which MSPL is supposed to infuse in the projects.

MSPL has funded this subordinate debt partly via its internal accruals and partly via Loan from
the Company;
The loan from the Company is a combination of floating and fixed Rate, the current weighted average of loan is in the range of 6.75% per annum to 8.5% per annum;
Tenure of the Company loans varies from 1 to 2 years.

7.

Details of the Valuation or other external party report In case of SEIT, the external non-related party investors shall determine the value and the quantum of
(if any)
the InvIT units and will be supported by the valuation report which will be made available as per InvIT
regulations at the time of filing of the final placement memorandum of SEIT with SEBI.

8.

Percentage of the Company’s annual consolidated Rs. 3,500 crores constitute 2.86% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company for the financial year
turnover, for the immediately preceding financial ended 31st March, 2023.
year, that is represented by the value of the proposed
Name of the Subsidiary
Value of the proposed transaction p.a. as a % of the annual
transaction (and for a RPT involving a subsidiary, such
turnover* of the Subsidiary on standalone basis
percentage calculated on the basis of the subsidiary’s
MSPL
883%
annual turnover on a standalone basis shall be
additionally provided)
* Turnover includes Revenue from Operations and Other Income.
Note: The percentage above is based on the Company’s Consolidated Turnover / Subsidiary’s Standalone
Turnover for the FY 2022-23 and the actual percentage shall depend upon the turnover of the Company/
Subsidiary as the case may be for the above referred respective financial years from 2023-24 to 202728 if the transaction is completed in such year.

9.

Transactions undertaken in previous 2 years with Not Applicable
certain related parties

3)

For Item No. 13
Material Modification in earlier approved Material Related Party Transactions between the Company and its Subsidiaries/Associate

	The Members of the Company at the Seventy-Sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 5th August, 2022 (“76th AGM”),
had approved Material Related Party Transactions of the Company with certain Related Parties viz. Swaraj Engines Limited, Classic
Legends Private Limited and CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited), on such material
terms and conditions as mentioned in the explanatory statement attached to Resolution No. 9 of the Notice of Seventy-Sixth AGM
and at monetary value not exceeding 2% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the Company or Rs. 2,000 Crores whichever
is higher, per annum for each of the financial years (FY) from FY 2022-23 to FY 2026-27 i.e., five financial years. However, the
estimated value of the contract(s)/ arrangement(s)/ agreement(s)/ transaction(s) of the Company with the aforesaid Related Parties
is anticipated to exceed the aforesaid monetary limit approved by the Members at the 76th AGM.
	Considering the Company’s current transactions with the above mentioned Related Parties and future business projections, it is now
proposed to increase the monetary value of related party transactions with the said Related Parties. This increment in the monetary
value of related party transactions with Related Parties will be on same material terms and conditions as approved earlier by the
Members at the 76th AGM.
	The approval of Members is sought as per the requirement of Regulation 23(4) of the Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circular
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2022/40 dated 30th March, 2022, for revision in the monetary limit of the Material Related Party
Transactions, details of which are mentioned herein in accordance with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/ CIR/P/2021/662 dated
22nd November, 2021:

30

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Sr.
No.

Name of the Related Party

Nature of relationship with the Company, Monetary Value per Related Party
including nature of its concern or
interest (financial or otherwise)

1

a.

Swaraj Engines Limited

Subsidiary

Not exceeding 5% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the
Company# or Rs. 5,000 Crores, whichever is higher, per annum

b.

Classic Legends Private Limited

Subsidiary

c.

CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known Associate
as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited)@

Not exceeding 3% of the Annual Consolidated Turnover of the
Company# or Rs. 3,000 Crores, whichever is higher, per annum

# The Annual Consolidated Turnover shall be as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.
@ Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited has on 16th May, 2023 informed the Stock Exchanges that its application for change of name from Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited to
CIE Automotive India Limited has been approved by the Central Government on 15th May, 2023. As on the date of this Notice, the Master Data on the website of the Ministry
of Corporate Affairs www.mca.gov.in carries the new name of the company and that the ‘fresh certificate of Incorporation pursuant to change in name’ as per Section 13(3)
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 29 of the Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014 was awaited.
2.

Type, Nature, material terms and particulars of the contract or arrangements
2a. Swaraj Engines Limited (“SEL”):

Maximum Amount in any
Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Purchase of goods primarily including engines, engine components and other related parts/components,
Sale of any goods and material including passenger / commercial vehicles, electric vehicles, electric kits,
assemblies, components, castings, forgings, sheet metal, engines, engine components, tractors, implements,
farm machinery, spares, accessories and other related components/parts;

4,700

4.7%

b)	Sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT
and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and
management support services, owned / third party services and reimbursements;

50

0.05%

c)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease of business assets including property, plant and equipment,
Intangible assets, transfer of technology to meet the business objectives and requirements;

50

0.05%

d)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest, commission and other related income / expenses;

100

0.10%

e)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements.

100

0.10%

Monetary
values p.a.
Rs. in crores

Note: The value of corporate actions, if any, from SEL including receipt of dividends, tendering securities as a part of buyback offer, receipt of bonus securities,
subscribing to rights issue, etc. by the Company that are uniformly offered/applicable to all shareholders in proportion to their shareholding, would be as approved by
the Board of Directors / Shareholders of SEL. However, the total value of transactions between the Company and SEL including dividend received will not breach the
overall limit for each of the financial years from 2023-24 to 2026-27 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 5,000 crores and an amount which is 5% of
the annual consolidated turnover as per the last audited financial statements of the Company.
2b. Classic Legends Private Limited (“CLPL”):

Maximum Amount in any Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Purchase / Sale of any goods and material primarily including two wheelers, spares & components;

2,250

2.25%

b)	Rendering/availing of services including R&D technical testing, etc;

100

0.10%

c)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest, commission and other related income / expenses;

500

0.50%

d)	Sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT
and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and
management support services, owned / third party services and reimbursements;

100

0.10%

e)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease of business assets including property, plant and equipment,
Intangible assets, transfer of technology to meet the business objectives and requirements;

25

0.025%

f)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/ requirements.

25

0.025%

Monetary values
p.a.
Rs. in crores

Note: The value of corporate actions, if any, from CLPL including receipt of dividends, tendering securities as a part of buyback offer, receipt of bonus securities, subscribing to
rights issue, etc. by the Company that are uniformly offered/applicable to all shareholders in proportion to their shareholding, would be as approved by the Board of Directors/
Shareholders of CLPL. However, the total value of transactions between the Company and CLPL including dividend received will not breach the overall limit for each of the
financial years from 2023-24 to 2026-27 which is the higher of the monetary value of Rs. 3,000 crores and an amount which is 3% of the annual consolidated turnover as
per the last audited financial statements of the Company.

31

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

2c. CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited) (“CIE”)

Maximum Amount
in any Financial Year
Higher of (A) and (B)

(A)

% of Consolidated
Turnover as per the
last audited financial
statements of the
Company for the
relevant financial year
(B)

a)	Purchase of goods primarily including castings, forgings, sheet metal, and other components/parts; Sale
of any goods and material including passenger / commercial vehicles, electric vehicles and other related
components/parts;

2,850

2.85%

b)	Sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT
and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, receipt of royalty / brand usage,
manpower, management and management support services, owned / third party services, professional
services, technical support and reimbursements;

50

0.05%

c)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease of business assets including property, plant and equipment,
Intangible assets, transfer of technology to meet the business objectives and requirements;

50

0.05%

d)	Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/ requirements.

50

0.05%

Monetary
values p.a.
Rs. in crores

The proposed transactions as mentioned in point 2a to 2c above, would be purely operational / integral part of the operations of the Company and in ordinary
course of business with terms and conditions that are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates.
3.

Any advance paid or received for the contract or arrangement, if any
Based on the nature of transaction, advance for part or full amount of the transaction / arrangement could be paid / received in the ordinary course of business.

4.

Tenure
Existing (as on 1st April, 2022) and new Contracts / arrangements / agreements / transactions for remaining period of 4 years i.e. upto 31st March, 2027.

5.

Justification for why the proposed transaction is in the interest of the Company
5a. Swaraj Engines Limited ("SEL"):
	SEL is an India-based company, which is primarily engaged in the business of diesel engines, diesel engine components and spare parts. It manufactures diesel engines for
fitment into Swaraj tractors, which are manufactured by the Company. SEL is into manufacturing and supplying of diesel engines in the range of 20 HP to above 65 HP.
It is equipped with highly productive & precise quality analysing machines. It is also manufacturing hi-tech engine components. Common Vendors for Tractor and Engine
Parts, provide operating synergies to the Company.
	In the Financial Year 2022-23, the Company sold 4,07,545 tractors (under the Mahindra, Swaraj and Trakstar brands, a growth of 14.9% over the previous year). This is
the highest ever vehicle sales and tractor sales in any year by Mahindra’s Farm Equipment Sector.
	Your Company's F23 market share at 41.2% continues to position it as the domestic market leader for the 40 th consecutive year. Your Company's performance was
supported by good performance of all products in the portfolio across all three brands viz. Mahindra, Swaraj and Trakstar.
	The Company has built adequate manufacturing capacity for the immediate future and is in the process of investing in additional capacity as part of its mid to long-term
strategy for its Farm Equipment Sector. As it prepares to open its new manufacturing facility in Mohali, Swaraj Tractors produced its two millionth tractor. A further
17.41% of SEL was acquired by your Company from Kirloskar Industries Limited (KIL). As a result, the Company now own 52.13% of Swaraj Engines Limited (SEL), making
SEL a subsidiary of the Company.
	Thus, keeping in view the expected future business prospects of the Company, it is proposed to seek approval of the Members for Related Party Transactions entered/ to
be entered into with SEL as per the limits stated in point 1.
5b. Classic Legends Private Limited ("CLPL"):
	CLPL is mainly engaged in sales & marketing of two wheelers, spares, accessories & related activities. CLPL aims to revive classic motorcycle brands and has launched
motorcycles such as Jawa, Yezdi and BSA.
	Your Company being a promoter of CLPL, was approached by CLPL to manufacture and supply motorcycles to CLPL under its brand name. In line with the strategy for the
two-wheeler business, the Company through CLPL had reintroduced the iconic brand 'Jawa' to the Indian market in the Financial Year 2019, with the launch of new range of
JAWA motorcycles - Jawa and Jawa FortyTwo.
	In FY22 another iconic brand 'Yezdi' has been reintroduced with three new models at the same time – Yezdi Adventure, Yezdi Scrambler and Yezdi Roadster. The Company will
be benefited by using its manufacturing facility at Pithampur plant and R&D facility for two wheelers of CLPL. CLPL will be able to utilise the expertise of the Company for
manufacturing, sourcing, etc.
	During FY23, 42 Bobber motorcycle was introduced in Indian market and in addition CLPL forayed into UK and European market by introducing iconic British brand BSA.
	This in turn will contribute towards Mahindra Group synergy. Transactions with CLPL are expected to grow in future with strong collection of Brands such as Jawa, Yezdi and
BSA. Keeping in mind the potential quantum of transactions with CLPL over the next few years, it is proposed to seek approval of the Members for Related Party Transactions
entered/to be entered into with CLPL as per the limits stated in point 1.
5c. CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited) ("CIE")
	CIE, part of the global auto component player, is a diversified multi-technology company and a player with complex & value-added parts. Its global customer base includes major
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) of India and overseas. It being a leading producer of forgings, castings, magnetics, stampings with wider range of product technologies,
well established and certified plants provide assurance of the quality and timeliness of production and supplies. Also, several years of established relationship between the
Company and CIE has resulted in operational synergies and cost optimisation besides assurance of product quality.
	CIE being an auto component maker, targets to have all key OEMs in its customer portfolio. The Company is one of the leading OEMs in India and has been a major customer for
CIE. Other transactions with CIE are also linked to or are relevant for ensuring smooth supply of products to the Company.
	Transactions with CIE are expected to grow in future. Keeping in mind the potential quantum of transactions with CIE over the next few years, it is proposed to seek approval of
the Members for Related Party Transactions entered/to be entered into with CIE as per the limits stated in point 1.
 esides the specific company-wise justification stated above in point 5a to 5c, the Company benefits through operational synergies, cost optimisation, assurance of product/service
B
quality, utilising the expertise within the group for manufacturing, sourcing, etc. thereby bringing efficiencies in the businesses, providing enhanced level of user experience to the
consumers of the Company to enable achieve growth objectives, access to and utilisation of strong R&D and design capabilities. Financial assistance would drive growth in subsidiary's/
associate's business and will enable them to innovate, scale up and pursue growth opportunities in a more focused manner.

32

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

6.

If the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity or its subsidiary:
i)	
details of the source of funds in connection with the proposed
transaction;

The financial assistance / investment would be from own funds / internal accruals of the
Company. The Company would not be incurring indebtedness solely for the purpose of
providing financial assistance / making investment.

ii)	where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investments,
•	nature of indebtedness;
•	cost of funds; and
•	tenure

Not applicable, since the Company would not be incurring financial indebtedness specially
for giving financial assistance or making investments.

iii)	Applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, interest rate and
repayment schedule, whether secured or unsecured; if secured, the
nature of security;

Investments by way of subscription, purchase or otherwise in securities / debt instruments
and / or providing of loans, advances, and guarantees in relation to above mentioned
subsidiaries/associate would be in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,
2013. The interest charged will be in compliance with the provisions of section 186 of
the Companies Act, 2013.
The financial assistance in the form of loan / inter-corporate deposit, if any provided, will
be on an arm’s length basis considering the following:i)	The nature and tenor of loan/ICD,
ii)	The opportunity cost for the Company from investment in alternative options, and
iii)	The cost of availing funds for the Company and for the related party.

iv)	The purpose for which the funds will be utilised by the ultimate beneficiary
of such funds pursuant to the related party transaction

The funds shall be used for operational activities and other business requirements of the
company to whom funds are provided and/or for making investment(s) in and/or providing
financial assistance to any of its subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures.

7.

Details of the Valuation or other external party report (if any)

The related party transactions will be in line with the Company's Policy on Materiality of and
Dealing with Related Party Transactions. These transactions are on arm’s length basis and
in the ordinary course of business. The related party transactions will be supported by the
Valuation Report of an Independent valuer, wherever necessary.

8.

Percentage of the Company’s annual consolidated turnover, for the
immediately preceding financial year, that is represented by the value of
the proposed transaction (and for a related party transaction involving
a subsidiary, such percentage calculated on the basis of the subsidiary’s
annual turnover on a standalone basis shall be additionally provided)

Rs. 5,000 crores constitute 4.08% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company and
Rs. 3,000 crores constitute 2.45% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 st March, 2023.
Name of the Subsidiary

Rs. 5,000 Crores as a % of Subsidiary’s
Annual Turnover* on a Standalone Basis

Swaraj Engines Limited

349%

Name of the Subsidiary

Rs. 3,000 Crores as a % of the
Subsidiary’s Annual Turnover* on a
Standalone Basis

Classic Legends Private Limited

422%

* Turnover includes Revenue from Operations and Other Income.
Note: The percentage above is based on the Company’s Consolidated Turnover /
Subsidiary’s Standalone Turnover for the FY 2022-23 and the actual percentage shall
depend upon the turnover of the Company/ Subsidiary as the case may be for the above
referred respective financial years from 2023-24 to 2026-27.
9.

Transactions undertaken in previous Financial Year ended 31st March 2023 and 31st March, 2022
Rs. in crores
Sr.
No.

Name of the Company

Nature of Transactions

FY22

FY23

a.

Swaraj Engines Limited

Purchase and Sale of goods, Sale of property, plant and equipment,
availing and rendering of services, dividend income, deputation of
personnel, reimbursements paid and received, other income and
expenses, etc.

1,380.14

1,751.98

b.

Classic Legends Private Limited

Purchase and sale of goods, rendering and availing of services, intercorporate deposits given, interest and other income, investments,
deputation / sharing of personnel, reimbursements paid and received,
etc.

1,010.51

1,227.51

c.

CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known as
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited)("CIE")&

Purchase of goods, property, plant & equipment and other intangible
assets, sale of goods, other income and expenses, royalty received
for usage of 'Mahindra' Brand / Trade Name, availing and rendering of
services, dividend received, reimbursement paid, etc.

1,389.26

1,998.81

&

The royalty received from CIE for usage of ‘Mahindra’ Brand/ trade name was Rs. 1.12 lacs in FY22 and Rs. 0.89 lacs in FY23. The royalty receivable from CIE during
each of the financial years 2024-2027, would be well below the permitted statutory ceiling as prescribed under Regulation 23 (1A) of Listing Regulations i.e. 5% of
the annual consolidated turnover of the Company.

33

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

The Company has in place a robust process for approval of Material Related Party Transactions and on dealing with Related
Parties.
As per the process, necessary details for each of the Related Party Transactions as applicable along with the justification
are provided to the Audit Committee in terms of the Company's Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party
Transactions and as required under SEBI Circular dated 22nd November, 2021. Further, a Certificate from the Managing
Director & Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company confirming that the Related Party
Transactions are in the ordinary course of business of the Company and on arm’s length basis is also placed before the
Audit Committee.
The Related Party Transactions placed for Members’ approval shall also be reviewed/ monitored on quarterly basis by the
Audit Committee of the Company as per Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations and Section 177 of the Companies Act,
2013 and shall remain within the proposed amount(s) being placed before the Members.
Any subsequent material modifications in the proposed transactions, as defined by the Audit Committee as a part of the
Company’s Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party Transactions, shall be placed before the Members for
approval, in terms of Regulation 23(4) of the Listing Regulations. As per the amended Listing Regulations effective from 1st
January, 2022, all the Related Party Transactions shall be approved only by those members of the audit committee, who
are independent directors. Since the Company’s Audit Committee comprises only of Independent Directors, the amendment
to the Listing Regulations, requiring approval of related party transactions only by those members of the Audit Committee
who are Independent Directors of the Company, was already institutionalised by the Company much before such amendment
was made effective on 1st January, 2022.
The Related Party Transactions placed for Members’ approval are specific in nature and have been approved by the Audit
Committee and Board of Directors of the Company.
The Company will seek separate approval on an Annual Basis from the shareholders, in future, in case any omnibus approvals
are needed for Material Related Party Transactions.
None of the promoters/ promoter group entities are interested, directly or indirectly, in any of the proposed transactions.
The proposed transactions shall not, in any manner, be detrimental to the interest of minority shareholders and are in the
best interest of the Company and its Members.
The Members may please note that in terms of provisions of the Listing Regulations, none of the related party(ies) (whether
such related party(ies) are a party to the proposed transactions or not), shall vote to approve the Ordinary Resolutions at
Item Nos. 11, 12 and 13 of the Notice. Details of Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company holding Directorships
in the concerned Related Party(ies) are given below:

Sr.
No.

Company

Item No. 11
1.
Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services
Limited
2.
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
3.
Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited*
4.
Mahindra Susten Private Limited
5.
Sustainable Energy Infra Trust**
* in the process of being incorporated

Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company holding Directorships in the
concerned Related Party(ies)
Dr. Anish Shah – Chairperson and Non-Executive Director
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar – Non-Executive Director
Not Applicable
Mr. Manoj Bhat – Non-Executive Director
Not Applicable

** in the process of being registered

34

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Sr.
No.

Company

Item No. 12
1.
Mahindra Susten Private Limited
2.
Sustainable Energy Infra Trust **
** in the process of being registered
Item No. 13
1.
Swaraj Engines Limited
2.
Classic Legends Private Limited

Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company holding Directorships in the
concerned Related Party(ies)
Mr. Manoj Bhat – Non-Executive Director
Not Applicable

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar – Non-Executive Chairman
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra – Non-Executive Director
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar – Non-Executive Director

3.

CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known
as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited)

Mr. Manoj Bhat – Non-Executive Director
-–

None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives are concerned or interested,
financially or otherwise, in the resolutions set out at Item Nos. 11, 12 and 13 of the Notice.
The Board of Directors of the Company recommends the Material Related Party Transactions of the Company as set out in
Item Nos. 11, 12 and 13 of the Notice for approval of the Members by way of Ordinary Resolutions.

By Order of the Board

NARAYAN SHANKAR
Company Secretary
ACS No. 8666
Registered Office:
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – 400 001.
CIN		
e-mail
Website
Tel.		

:
:
:
:

L65990MH1945PLC004558
investors@mahindra.com
https://www.mahindra.com
+91 22 22895500

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

35

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

Information at a glance
Sr.
No.

Particulars

Details

1.

Day, Date and Time of AGM

Friday, 4th August, 2023, 3:00 p.m. (IST)

2.

Mode

Video Conference (VC)/Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM)

3.

Participation through
Video‑Conferencing

Members can login from 2:30 p.m. (IST) on the date of AGM at https://emeetings.kfintech.com

4.

Helpline Number for VC
participation

Phone No.: 040-6716 1509 or KFintech’s toll free No.: 1800-3094-001

5.

Submission of Questions /
Queries Before AGM

Questions/queries shall be submitted 48 hours before the time fixed for AGM i.e. by 3:00
p.m. (IST) on Wednesday, 2nd August, 2023, by any of the following processes:
•	Email to investors@mahindra.com mentioning name, demat account number/folio
number, registered email ID, mobile number, etc.
•	Members holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e. Friday, 28th July, 2023, may also
visit https://emeetings.kfintech.com and click on “Post Your Queries” and post queries/
views/questions in the window provided, by mentioning name, demat account number/
folio number, email ID and mobile number.
Members can also post their questions during AGM through the “Ask A Question” tab which
is available in the VC/OAVM Facility as well as in the one way live webcast facility.

6.

Speaker Registration Before
AGM

Visit https://emeetings.kfintech.com and click on “Speaker Registration” during the
period from Monday, 24th July, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) upto Wednesday, 26th July, 2023
(5:00 p.m. IST).

7.

Recorded transcript

Will be made available post AGM at
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/regulatory-filings

8.

Dividend for FY23
recommended by Board

Rs. 16.25 (325%) per Ordinary (Equity) Share of the face value of Rs. 5 each

9.

Dividend Book Closure dates

Saturday, 15th July, 2023 to Friday, 4th August, 2023 (both days inclusive)

10.

Dividend payment date

After Friday, 4th August, 2023

11.

Information of tax on
Dividend 2022-23

https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/regulatory-filings

12.

Cut-off date for e-voting

Friday, 28th July, 2023

13.

Remote E-voting start time
and date

Monday, 31 st July, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST)

14.

Remote E-voting end time
and date

Thursday, 3rd August, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST)

15.

Remote E-voting website
of KFin

https://evoting.kfintech.com

16.

Name, address and contact
details of e-voting service
Provider and Registrar and
Transfer Agent

KFin Technologies Limited (earlier known as KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. 31 & 32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana – 500 032

Email Registration &
Contact Updation Process

Demat shareholders:
Contact respective Depository Participant.

17.

Contact detail: Phone No.: 040-6716 1509 or KFintech’s toll free No.: 1800-3094-001

Physical Shareholders:
Send Form ISR-1 and other relevant forms to KFintech at Selenium, Tower-B, Plot No. 31 &
32, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana India
– 500 032 or at the email ID einward.ris@kfintech.com

36

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report
2022- 23

KESHUB MAHINDRA
1923-2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

This

portrait
made using AI technology,
is our tribute to a man
who consistently remained
ahead of the times and
yet in sync with it.

In loving
memory,
forever in
our hearts
Keshub Mahindra
1960s
1

2

3

4

5

6

1

2
Keshub Mahindra
with Pandit Jawaharlal
Nehru at MUSCO plant
in Khopoli, 1960s

5

4

3
JS Vasan, Keshub
Mahindra, Roshan
Sethna, Rati Fyzee
and I Chatterjee
celebrate M&M
Anniversary on
2ⁿ Oct 1954

Keshub Mahindra
with Alex Trotman
during the Ford car
launch press
conference in
New Delhi
on 21 Feb 1996

Queen Noor al-Hussein
of Jordan with Keshub
Mahindra at the MUWCI
inauguration in 1997

6
Harish and Keshub
Mahindra at the opening
of MUSCO Alloy Steel
Plant Khopoli on
30 April 1968

Keshub Mahindra
with BR Sule driving
away the 10,000
Willys Jeep at
Mazgaon Plant on
9 Oct 1964

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

7

8

9

Keshub Mahindra
1970s

10
11

12

7

8
Keshub Mahindra
with Indira Gandhi,
1970s

9
Anand and
Keshub Mahindra
with the Scorpio,
June 2002

11

10
Keshub Mahindra
being honoured at
the Motor India
Automan Awards on
12 July 2000

Keshub Mahindra
with Mother Teresa
1980s

12
Sactor Tractor on
display as Keshub
Mahindra inaugurates
Tractor Assembly
Plant at Nagpur on
10 April 2000

Keshub and Anand
Mahindra at M&M
AGM on 30 July
2007

Milestones

With a vision of driving
farm prosperity, M&M formed
a joint venture with USA's
International Harvester to
pioneer Mahindra branded
tractors in India.

1961

1956

1947
Mr Keshub Mahindra joined
M&M, which had just started
assembling Willys Jeeps in
Mumbai, a er graduating from
Wharton at the University of
Pennsylvania.

M&M went public in 1956
and got listed on the
Bombay Stock Exchange.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Mr Keshub Mahindra
served as a member
of the Prime Minister's
Council on Trade and
Industry.
Mahindra British Telecom
was formed in partnership
with British Telecom.
MBT later became
Tech Mahindra.

Mr Keshub Mahindra
took over as M&M
Chairman.
Mahindra Education
Trust rechristened to
KC Mahindra Education
Trust (KCMET) as a
tribute to the
founder Chairman.

1986

1963

1987

1973

1962
Mahindra Ugine Steel
was formed in partnership
with Ugine Kuhlmann,
France. e then PM,
Mr Jawaharlal Nehru,
visited the steel factory.

2004 2010

In the wake of the
oil crisis, M&M replaced
the petrol-guzzling
engine with a high-power,
high-speed diesel tractor
engine, within a record
six months.

Mr Keshub Mahindra
was awarded French
Govt's honour Chevalier
de l'Ordre national de
la Legion d'Honneur.

1945

E x p r e s s i o n s

e v o l

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2023

DEAR COMPANIES,
AS A CITIZEN OF
THE FUTURE,
I HAVE
A FEW QUESTIONS
FOR YOU.
Will the great things you make,
make the world great too?
Are you planning to make big factories
and bigger forests?
How much proﬁt will the planet make
from your actions?
Would you look a er farmers like
they look a er their crops?
Is helping the less fortunate
a part of your business plans?
Do you agree that a woman is o en
the best man for a job?
When you wake up in the morning,
is it to make the whole world rise?
At Mahindra, we believe questions asked
by the citizens of the future will show the
way to the businesses of the future.
#TogetherWeRise

v e.

Va l u e s

e n d u r e.

CHAIRMAN’S
MESSAGE

Anand G. Mahindra

Chairman

“The example set by Keshub Mahindra will now,
more than ever, be a guiding force on how we
tackle the future.”

Dear Shareholders,
Mr. Keshub Mahindra was a towering figure
in the Mahindra Group ever since he joined
in 1947 and it is difficult to accept that
he is gone. Today, he looms large in our
thoughts.

“From a personal
perspective, the
greatest lesson
his life has taught
me is that living
with zest and
engagement is
the secret of a
long, happy and
successful life.”

Keshub Mahindra was a part of my life
ever since I was born. There are so many
memories of him I cherish – his charm, his
love for tennis and golf, the dashing picture
he made as he drove the first vehicle to be
indigenously produced by M&M out of the
factory, his knack of instantly connecting
with people, young or old, the affectionate
awe with which he was regarded by the
highest to the lowest in the Mahindra Group.
He died, as he had lived, peacefully,
surrounded by the love of his family. All who
knew him will always regret that he missed
his century by just a few months.
What can we learn from the life of someone
who spent 99 plus impactful years on the

planet? Much has been written about
Keshub Mahindra's sagacity, his humility, his
vision and many other qualities of head and
heart – and every word of this is true. But,
from a personal perspective, the greatest
lesson his life has taught me is that living
with zest and engagement is the secret of a
long, happy and successful life. He never
gave in to age or infirmity, remained fully
engaged with the world, till the very end.
And that is why we will miss him every day.
Keshub Mahindra may have retired from
active business when he became NonExecutive Chairman, and later Chairman
Emeritus, but he never retired from life.
Practically till the last day, he continued to
take a lively interest in the affairs of the
Mahindra Group, particularly its social
initiatives. He attended every important
meeting, even during the Covid years, when,
despite being in his nineties, he taught
himself to log in virtually.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Just a few weeks before he passed away,
he actively participated in the Board
Meeting of the Mahindra United World
College. As late as 23 March, he chaired
meetings of the Board of Trustees of the
Mahindra Foundation and the KC Mahindra
Education Trust. It is inspirational that
despite the weight of his years, he never
slowed down intellectually, never lost his
involvement with the world around him.
It makes me nostalgic when I recall how
keen he always was to keep abreast of
everything that was going on. The progress
of the business was, of course, important
to him. Not a week went by when he would
not ask me for news about the Group's
performance — and the share price!
However, his concern for the business went
hand in hand with his concern for people.
He valued people and their talents. If he got
news of a resignation his first question
always was “But why did this happen? Why
was he or she not happy working with us?”
And his other major area of concern was
technology. As technology became a driving
force in business and our lives, he displayed
an ever-deepening desire to understand and
guide its impact. R&D particularly fascinated
him, and he constantly questioned whether
we were adequately prepared for a world
without fossil fuels. His questioning was
always incisive; yet he never came across as
intimidating or controlling. Empowerment
was very much his style. However, he had
the gift of seeing two moves ahead, and
his questions always made one think.
Having been with M&M almost since
inception, he saw plenty of the ups and
downs of business. He took the rough with
the smooth, with courage. His steady and
clear-headed optimism and his fortitude in
times of adversity was infectious and served
as a beacon for those of us who had the
privilege of working with him. Keshub
Mahindra was an institution, and we will miss
him immensely.
I am sure that your Company's performance
showcased in this Annual Report would have

made him very happy. Our core businesses
have had a very good year, despite many
geopolitical and supply side challenges. We
have declared the highest dividend in our
history. M&M shares have outperformed the
Nifty50 as well as the Nifty Auto Index. We
are the best performing stock on Nifty since
2002. It has clearly been a memorable year.
As for the future, our growth path is clearly
set out. Our strategies for scaling up the
core businesses and the growth gems are
well def ined. The Indian economy has
grown at 7% and we are in the right place
at the right time.
But there are also tectonic changes in the
offing. The rise of Generative AI is likely to
be a major inflexion point which could
fundamentally transform life and business
as we know it. AI could literally become a
co-pilot in almost everything that we do.
In business, this may well call for totally
reinventing the way we look at our work.
There are exciting times ahead, full of
challenges as well as opportunities.
The example set by Keshub Mahindra will
now, more than ever, be a guiding force
on how we tackle the future.
I pray that all of us in the Mahindra Group
will engage with life and its challenges
with the same foresight , optimism,
unflagging spirit, commitment, passion and
compassion as he did.
That is the best way to ensure that his spirit
will live on.

“As technology
became a driving
force in business
and our lives,
Keshub Mahindra
displayed an
ever-deepening
desire to
understand and
guide its impact.”

MD & CEO’S
MESSAGE

Dr. Anish Shah
MD & CEO

“Mr. Keshub Mahindra’s legacy endures in the high
standard of Governance he established, setting a
precedent for companies worldwide. He was truly
a remarkable leader.”

Dear Shareholders,

“We have seen
a significant
acceleration in
the last two
years, as our
revenue has
grown 1.6 times,
and our profits
have tripled,
outpacing our
own ambitious
targets. This
financial
performance
underscores the
robust underlying
performance
across our diverse
businesses.”

O u r e s te e m e d C h a i r m a n E m e r i t u s ,
Mr. Keshub Mahindra, bid us farewell in
April of this year. As a visionary leader, he
played a pivotal role in transforming the
Mahindra Group into the diversif ied
powerhouse it is today. His legacy endures
in the high standard of Governance he
established, setting a precedent for
companies worldwide. He was truly a
remarkable leader.
On a personal note, I will miss his mentorship
and guidance, his insights on leadership and
his perspectives on business. He cared
about people and their well-being. He
placed values above everything else, the
importance of keeping our word and
building trust in all our actions.
We are custodians of these values. On 8
November, 1945, the Mahindra Group, then
b a re ly a m o n t h o l d , p u b l i s h e d a n
advertisement in India's largest circulating
English daily. It mentioned no product or
service. Instead, it listed fundamental

principles with which the company would
operate. Mr Keshub Mahindra lived these
values. And, our philosophy will remain
steadfast - a commitment to drive positive
change in the lives of our communities,
enabling them to Rise. The refreshed Rise
philosophy is a contemporary expression of
the time-tested values that were written
more than 78 years ago.
Our belief in our Purpose drives our actions.
We continue to play a leadership role in
protecting the Environment by staying on a
bold path to be Planet Positive by 2040 and
innovating to decarbonise our industries.
O u r S o c i a l a c t i v i t i e s have ma d e a
meaningful difference in education and
women's empowerment. And, we strive
hard to maintain the gold standard in
Governance.
We also believe that Purpose will drive
Profits, and have delivered outstanding
results in the face of several unforeseen
challenges. Over the past year, while the

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

global landscape was marked by the Ukraine
war, rising commodity prices, tightening
global monetary policy, and slower global
economic growth, the Mahindra Group stood
tall as a beacon of strength and resilience.
Our results for the fiscal year 2022-23
delivered revenue of Rs 1.21 lakh crore
($15 bn), accompanied by an impressive
return on equity of 19.9%. Our net profit of
10,282 crore ($1.25 bn) is the highest ever,
beating the prior record by a wide margin.
We have seen a significant acceleration in
the last two years, as our revenue has grown
1.6 times, and our profits have tripled,
outpacing our own ambitious targets.
This financial performance underscores the
robust underlying performance across our
diverse businesses. Our auto business
continued its leadership position over the
last four quarters in SUVs and LCVs, while
our tractor business continued to reign
supreme in the market. Our services
businesses have made a signif icant
contribution, with Mahindra Finance well
into its turnaround, Tech Mahindra poised to
capture its full potential and our growth
gems delivering on their promise of value
creation. We are proud to deliver world-class
products that have enabled us to succeed in
the face of strong global competition.
We are a global company with strong roots
in India. We consider ourselves profoundly
fortunate to witness India's remarkable
growth and evolving potential . Our
businesses are well-positioned to capitalise
on the opportunities offered across various
industries. We have demonstrated the ability
to develop world-class products and
services, and effectively compete with
global players both in India and in markets
around the world.
We will leverage and enhance our global
footprint with a laser-sharp focus on
businesses that can establish a meaningful
presence in key markets and amplify
product technologies, thu s fur ther
strengthening our competitiveness in India
and globally.

Looking ahead, we remain committed to our
purpose, and to deliver growth and returns,
while maintaining strong fiscal discipline.
We will capitalise on our market leadership
in automotive and farm sectors, achieve
full potential in our finance and technology
businesses and nurture our growth gems businesses that are very well positioned
in key industries and are delivering an
accelerated growth trajectory.
Our goal is to establish technology
leadership across all our industries. Our
Tech Visionaries, including senior leaders,
actively understand and leverage the
dynamic technology landscape to enhance
our products, processes, and customer
experience. Through AI, metaverse,
cybersecurity initiatives, and ongoing
generative AI experiments, we are unlocking
new possibilities. Additionally, we are
now capitalising on synergies with Tech
Mahindra.
Throughout our journey, our people have
stood by us and supported us in all our
endeavours. They have been the backbone
of our successes and achievements. Our
teams are driven by a shared purpose, and
they serve our customers and communities
with passion and ingenuity. They navigate
complexitie s, ha rne ss cutting- edge
technology, and foster innovation. Their
efforts allow us to thrive in a world
brimming with both opportunities and
challenges.
We look to the future with confidence. One
that holds many opportunities. And
challenges, which our teams will take in
their stride. A future where the Mahindra
Group stands unwavering at the forefront
of innovation, driving positive change, and
leaving an indelible mark on the world
we serve.

“We continue to
play a leadership
role in protecting
the Environment
by staying on a
bold path to be
Planet Positive.
Our Social
activities have
made a
meaningful
difference in
education and
women’s
empowerment.
And, we strive
hard to maintain
the gold standard
in Governance.”

CONTENTS

01

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

13

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

23

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

31

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

51

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

52

STATUTORY
REPORTS

223

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

ANNOUNCEMENT
We embarked on our journey of
Integrated Reporting in F17 in keeping
with our commitment towards
transparency and the highest standards
of corporate governance. The following
year, to present our shareholders with a
more holistic view of how we create and
sustain long-term value, we included key
elements of the Integrated Report (IR)
along with the Annual Report. While
staying true to the principles of the
International Integrated Reporting
Council's framework that was
incorporated in the past, our Integrated
Report structure has also evolved to
create a more reader-friendly experience.
This IR is in consonance with SEBI Circular
dated 6 February 2017. An Integrated
Report takes corporate reporting beyond
just discussing the financial resources,
since any value creation activity requires
other resources like people, natural
resources and business relationships.
This report will discuss how Mahindra &
Mahindra Ltd. (M&M Ltd.) creates value
by leveraging the interlinkages between
these interdependent resources. Where
necessary, we have explained the concept
using charts and infographics. Some IR
related data might be management
estimates and could be updated in
subsequent publications, like the
Mahindra Sustainability Report.
For any other information please visit
www.mahindra.com

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

HOW TO READ THE REPORT
Integrated Report <IR>
Businesses exist to create value - not only
for the shareholders, but also for their
diverse stakeholders. A business's ability
to sustain value over the long-term
depends on how it manages, leverages
and integrates its tangible and intangible
resources - from financial capital, plant &
machinery, employees, communities,
government licenses and natural
resources; to corporate governance
practices, intellectual knowhow and the
social license to operate.
We use an easy-to-understand diagram to
depict inputs, outputs, and the resulting
outcomes, with respect to various
capitals, that are measured by KPIs. The
structure of this report remains true to
the principles of integrated reporting and
seeks to create a more lucid flow of
information for a crisp and coherent
disclosure. The detailed Statutory
Statements and Financial Reports are

also part of this document and are in line
with the requirements of the Companies
Act, 2013 (including the rules made
thereunder), Indian Accounting Standards,
Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and
the applicable Secretarial Standards.
Please note that certain statements in
this report with regard to our future
growth prospects are forward-looking
statements, which involve a number of
risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from
those in such forward-looking statements.
Throughout the report, the terms
'Mahindra', 'Mahindra & Mahindra', 'M&M',
and 'M&M Ltd.' have been used
interchangeably to refer to Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited.

Scope of the Report
The reporting period of Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited apropos this Integrated
Report is 1 April, 2022 to 31 March,
2023.
This Integrated Report provides an
overview of the operations and business
development activities of the Company.
It is also aligned to the nine principles
of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs'
National Voluntary Guidelines on the
social, environmental and economic
responsibilities of a business.

The scope of this Report is related to
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, consisting
of the Automotive Sector, Farm
Equipment Sector, Spares Business Unit,
Mahindra Research Valley, Two-Wheeler
Division, Construction Equipment Division
and Powertrain Business Division.
We have represented data related to
other group businesses and Companies,
wherever required, to provide a holistic
view of the Company's performance and
presence.

This Integrated
Report provides a
cohesive view of
our performance
and ability to
create value
consistently
through six
capitals – Financial,
Manufactured,
Intellectual,
Human, Social &
Relationship, and
Natural.

PERFORMANCE
HIGHLIGHTS
FINANCIAL – F23
M&M Standalone

M&M Consolidated

REVENUE

REVENUE

J Crore

84,960

J Crore

47% increase
compared to F22

PAT (Before EI)*

PAT (Before EI)*

J Crore

7,770

J Crore

52% increase
compared to F22

PAT (A er EI)*

8,893

42% increase
compared to F22

PAT (A er EI)*

J Crore

6,549

increase
compared to F22
1,21,269 34%

J Crore

34% increase
compared to F22

10,282

56% increase
compared to F22

NON-FINANCIAL – F23

Highest Ever
Total Tractor Volume

4,07,545 units
(Includes domestic sales and exports;
includes Mahindra, Swaraj & Trakstar Brands)

15% YoY

Increase in total tractor volume

Highest Ever

Total Automotive Volume

6,98,456 units
(Includes domestic sales and exports)

*EI - Exceptional Items

50% YoY

Increase in total automotive volume

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Blockbuster Launch

1,00,000

5-star

bookings in under
30 minutes

safety rating from
Global NCAP

Viewer's
Choice Car
of the Year by Autocar

No.1

1 Indian

‘Automobile &
Components’ Company
to be included in DJSI for
2ⁿ consecutive year

(Part of the World Index)

LCVs
(<3.5T)

Farm
Equipment

Electric
3 Wheelers

market share

market share

market share

market share

19.1%

45.5%

41.2%

67.6%

up 370 bps

up 520 bps

up ~300 bps

SUV
Revenue

in last 2 years

2.7x Increase
in utilisation of Total
Renewable Electricity
compared to F22

01

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

The Group has
a clear focus on
leading ESG
globally, enabling
rural prosperity
and enhancing
urban living, with
a goal to drive
positive change
in the lives of
communities and
stakeholders to
enable them to
Rise.

THE MAHINDRA
GROUP

MAHINDRA &
MAHINDRA LTD.

A technology & innovation-led, global,
federation of companies, that provides
a wide range of products, services &
possibilities, enabling people to Rise.
We have more than 2,60,000 employees
and a presence in over 100 countries.
Founded in 1945; it is the world's largest
tractor Company by volume. The Group
enjoys a leadership position in farm
equipment, utility vehicles, information
technology and financial services in India.
It also has a strong presence in renewable
energy, agriculture, logistics, hospitality,
and real estate.

Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. is the flagship
Company of the Mahindra Group. Our
core business is mobility products and
farm solutions.

While remaining committed to the core
values and purpose, the Group has
redefined the way to lead businesses
by embracing ESG and technology for
greater resilience, positioning itself for
future growth, and creating shared value,
enabling people to Rise. With the core
corporate philosophy of Rise, the Group
is reinventing the way the world looks
at businesses.

Since assembling our first vehicle in
1947, we have grown rapidly. Today, we
offer a wide range of products and
solutions ranging from SUVs, pickups,
commercial vehicles and tractors, to
electric vehicles, two-wheelers, gensets
and construction equipment. We
commenced our exports in the 1960s,
and today, our vehicles and tractors can
be found in all six habitable continents of
the world.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

GROUP SNAPSHOT

20
key industries

l World's largest tractor Company by volume
l India’s No. 1 SUV Manufacturer by revenue market share

2,60,000

l Enjoys a leadership position in farm equipment, utility vehicles,

information technology and financial services in India
l Strong presence in renewable energy, agriculture, logistics, hospitality

and real estate
l World's 1

All-Electric Hyper car - Pininfarina Battista

l Only Indian OEM in Formula E All-Electric Car Racing Championship

20+ INDUSTRIES
Mahindra Group's operations are in the key industries that form the foundation of every
modern economy. The industries, where we are transforming lives and shaping the modern
world through our presence, have been outlined below:

AEROSPACE
DEFENCE

PASSENGER &
COMMERCIAL
VEHICLES

TRACTORS

HOSPITALITY

FARM EQUIPMENT
AGRI INDUSTRY

COMPONENT
MANUFACTURING &
STEEL SOLUTIONS
AUTO RECYCLING
AFTERMARKETS

LOGISTICS
LAST MILE MOBILITY

TECHNOLOGY
SERVICES

RENEWABLE
ENERGY

FINANCIAL SERVICES

POWER SOLUTIONS

Vehicle & Equipment Financing
Rural Housing Finance
Mutual Funds
Insurance Broking

WATER UTILITY

REAL ESTATE

CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT

OUR
PURPOSE

OUR
CORE VALUES

Drive positive change in the lives
of our communities. Only when
we enable others to rise will we rise.
#TogetherWeRise

- Professionalism
- Good Corporate Citizenship
- Customer First
- Quality Focus
- Dignity of the Individual

For more information about our Core Values, please refer to our corporate website:
https://www.mahindra.com/about-mahindra-company

employees

Presence
in over

100
countries

02

03

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

AWARDS AND ACCOLADES
CORPORATE AWARDS
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA

AUTO SECTOR

MAHINDRA LOGISTICS

l Won the Automotive Company of the

l Conferred with the Best Logistics

Year award by Top Gear India.
l Scorpio-N secures the coveted Autocar

Viewer's Choice, Car of the Year award.
l Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, ED and CEO, AFS,

Awarded the
Ramkrishna Bajaj
Award for
Corporate Governance.

honoured as Autocar Professional's Man
of the Year.
l Scorpio-N rated as the world's first

body-on-frame vehicle to receive a
5-star rating from GNCAP.
FARM SECTOR
l ITOTY 2022 Winners: Swaraj 735 FE

Ranked amongst
the top six for
Leadership in Corporate
Governance by the
Institutional Investor
Advisory Services
India Limited (IiAS).

awarded Best Tractor in 31- 40 HP
catergory, Mahindra Novo 755 DI
recognised as Best Tractor in the above
60 HP category, Mahindra & Swaraj
Tractors honoured as Tractor
Manufacturer of the Year, and Mahindra
575 DI XP PLUS crowned Indian Tractor
of the Year.
l Zaheerabad team achieved the

prestigious Pinnacle Award for
Excellence in Manufacturing in
3 Domains - Production, Collaboration
Behavioural Aspects, by CII.
l Received two Par Excellence Awards

at QCFI, Indonesia.
MAHINDRA FINANCE
l Mahindra Finance recognised as the

Happiest Workplace for Women by
India Today at the RPG Happiness at
Workplace Summit & Awards 2023.
TECH MAHINDRA
l Recognised as a leading organisation

for women in 2023 by The Economic
Times at the 3 edition of The Economic
Times Best Organisations for Women
Conclave.
l Secured the Frost & Sullivan's Technology

Company of the Year and The Most
Responsible Logistics Organisation
Award at the ISCM Forum India Logistics
and Warehousing Excellence Awards
2022.
l Achieved Overall Excellence in Supply

Chain and Logistics in the categories
of 3PL, Warehousing, and Freight
Forwarding at the 2022 CII SCALE
Awards.

SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA
l Winner in the Governance category

of the Industrial Manufacturing &
Automotive sector at the KPMG ESG
Awards 2023.
l 1

Indian 'Automobile & Components'
Company to be included in DJSI for
the 2ⁿ consecutive year (Part of
the World Index).

l The only Indian Automobile Company

to be a part of the S&P Global
Sustainability Yearbook 2023.
FARM SECTOR
l Project Pani Rajasthan winner at the

ITOTY 2023 Award.
TECH MAHINDRA
l Ranked Number 1 in the S&P Global

Sustainability Yearbook 2023.
MAHINDRA FINANCE
l First NBFC in India to join the United

Nations Global Compact Network.
l Featured in the 2ⁿ

Edition of CRISIL
Sustainability Yearbook's Leadership
Index for outstanding performance
in the ESG domain.

Innovation Leadership Award 2022 for
Metaverse Technology Services.

MAHINDRA LIFESPACES DEVELOPERS

l Recognised as the fastest growing brand

'Double A' rating in the Climate Change
and Water Security category in CDP
2022.

globally in terms of 'Brand Value Rank' by
Brand Finance.
MAHINDRA LIFESPACES DEVELOPERS
l Mahindra Eden received the CII IGBC

Award in the category of IGBC Net Zero
Energy Building Design, 2022.

l The only Indian Company to receive a

l Ranked first in Public Disclosure (Asia)

for the third consecutive year according
to GRESB (Global Real Estate
Sustainability Benchmark).

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Mr. CP Gurnani

Mr. TN Manoharan

Chairman

Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director

Independent Director

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

Dr. Anish Shah

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Independent Director

Managing Director & CEO

Independent Director

Dr. Vishakha N Desai

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

Independent Director

Nominee of Life Insurance
Corporation of India

Independent Director

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Ms. Shikha Sharma

Executive Director and
CEO (Auto & Farm Sector)

Lead Independent Director

Independent Director

04

05

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD

Front row
from L to R

Middle row
from L to R

Back row
from L to R

CP Gurnani

Mohit Kapoor

Rajeshwar Tripathi

Vinod Sahay

MD & CEO,
Tech Mahindra Ltd.

EVP & Group Chief
Technology O cer

EVP, CHRO Auto &
Farm Sector

President, Chief
Purchase O cer AFS

Hemant Sikka

Ashok Sharma

President,
Farm Equipment
Sector

President, Agri Sector and
MD & CEO, Mahindra Agri
Solutions Ltd.

Abanti
Sankaranarayanan
EVP, Chief Group Public
A airs O cer

Manoj Bhat
President, Group Chief
Financial O cer

Rampraveen Swaminathan

Dr. Anish Shah

Veejay Ram Nakra

MD & CEO,
Mahindra Logistics Ltd.

MD & CEO,
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.

President,
Auto sector

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Naveen Raju

Kavinder Singh

Anand G. Mahindra

R. Velusamy

General Counsel,
EVP - Group Legal

MD & CEO, Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd.,
President (Leisure and Hospitality Sector)

Chairman

President, Automotive
Technology & Product Development

Vivek Agarwal

Puneet Renjhen

Asha Kharga

Rajesh Jejurikar

Ruzbeh Irani

President, APJI and
Corporate Development,
Tech Mahindra Ltd.

EVP, Partnerships &
Alliances

EVP, Chief Customer
& Brand O cer

Executive Director and
CEO (Auto & Farm Sector)

President,
Group HR

Amarjyoti Barua

Amit Kumar Sinha

Parag Shah

Ramesh Iyer

EVP, Group Strategy

MD & CEO, Mahindra
Lifespace Developers Ltd.

EVP & Head,
Mahindra Accelo

Vice Chairman & MD Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd.,
President (Financial Services Sector)

06

07

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

GLOBAL FOOTPRINT

THE GROUP HAS
BUSINESS PRESENCE
IN 100+ COUNTRIES
UK

67

MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES AROUND
THE WORLD
USA

Global Design Centre with
M.A.D.E., Electric Racing
Technology with Mahindra
Racing & Two-Wheeler
Technology with BSA

Automotive & EV
Technologies with
MRV, Detroit

45 INDIA
02 ALGERIA
01 AUSTRALIA
01 BENIN
01 BRAZIL
01 FINLAND
01 INDONESIA
01 JAPAN
01 KENYA
01 MALI
01 NIGERIA
01 SOUTH AFRICA
01 SRI LANKA
01 TUNISIA
02 TURKEY
02 UAE
04 USA

MRV - Mahindra Research Valley, Chennai & Detroit
MSPT - Mahindra SUV Proving Track, Chennai
MIDS - Mahindra India Design Studio, Mumbai
M.A.D.E. - Mahindra Advanced Design Europe
SDVC - So ware Deﬁned Vehicle Centre, Coimbatore

Business presence
and R&D facilities

Automotive

Business
presence

Tractors & Farm Machinery

Two-wheelers

Others

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

OUR R&D FACILITIES ARE
SET UP IN 21 CENTRES
ACROSS 7 COUNTRIES

India, Finland,
Italy, Japan,
Turkey, UK, USA

FINLAND
Harvester
Technology with
Sampo-Rosenlew

TURKEY
Farm Mechanisation
Technology with Erkunt

JAPAN
Rice Value Chain &
Tractor Technologies
with Mitsubishi

INDIA

ITALY
Advanced EV
Technologies with
Pininfarina

Automotive, Farm, Two-Wheeler
Engineering & Design, Connected
Cars & Electric Vehicle Technology,
Genset & Agri, Digitisation, AI, IOT
with MRV-led R&D centres, 4X4
COE with MSPT, Design studio MIDS
& SDVC.

Map not to scale. For illustrative purposes only.

08

09

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

MANUFACTURING PLANTS IN INDIA
As on 31 March 2023, property, plant and equipment (including capital work-in-progress) at M&M Ltd. stood at INR 14,000 crore.
We incurred a net capital expenditure of INR 3,431 crore in F23, and the major focus was on new product development.

21

MANUFACTURING
PLANTS ACROSS
THE COUNTRY

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
SALES VOLUME (UNITS)

FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
SALES VOLUME (UNITS)

6,98,456

4,07,545

3

1

MOHALI,
CHAPPERCHIRI,
SIALBA MAJRI

HARIDWAR

Swaraj Divison

1
JAIPUR

1

1

RUDRAPUR

VADODARA

Gromax

1

1

1
PITHAMPUR

IGATPURI

1

1

1

NAGPUR

KANDIVALI

2

1

1

1
ZAHEERABAD

CHAKAN

2

1

NASHIK

BENGALURU

- Manufacturing plants include M&M Ltd.,
Mahindra Heavy Engines Ltd. (Chakan),
Gromax Agri Equipment Ltd.
- Map not to scale. For illustrative purposes only.

Manufacturing Plants

Automotive

Tractors & Farm
Machinery

Farm
Machinery

TwoWheelers

Electric
Vehicles

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

MANUFACTURING CAPABILITIES
Globally, manufacturing is shifting towards Industry 4.0, incorporating automation, big data,
and the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). Mahindra is at the forefront of this movement,
adopting Industry 4.0 in its plants to enhance transparency, interoperability, and gain a
competitive edge.

The Technology
Centre at the
T&D Plant,
Nashik was
granted four
patents by the
Government of
India in F23.

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Mahindra's Automotive Sector has been focussing on leveraging analytics and next-gen
tools for increased productivity and reduced energy usage, resulting in a lower carbon
footprint. This also resulted in some highest-ever production figures for multiple AS plants.

DIGITAL
MANUFACTURING

SUSTAINABLE
TECHNOLOGIES

The Automotive Sector has embraced a
Digital Thread approach, connecting
product development and manufacturing
for traceability and enhanced productivity.
It is extensively utilising technologies such
as simulations, analytics, 3D factory to
design and set-up world class facilities and
deliver best in class products.

The Tool & Die (T&D) plant at Nashik
is leading the way in technological
advancements and the implementation
of world-class facilities in the sector.
They have already achieved success
with the implementation of ACT
(Advanced Cold Test) technology, which
is a green solution that eliminates the
need for diesel burning during testing.

Simulation models help analyse what-if
scenarios to optimse shift patterns,
inventory and scheduling. Virtual reality
allows for validation before implementation
with virtual walk-throughs and remote
supplier calibration.

This accomplishment marks the beginning
of an exciting journey for the plant as it
continues to adopt state-of-the-art
sustainable technologies.

10

11

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Manufacturing NEXT
We have established a programme to enhance our digital infrastructure, accelerating
our digital transformation efforts and positioning ourselves as a technology leader.
Through advanced analytics and automation, we aim to achieve significant impact and
efficiency gains.

Connected
Supply Chain

Sustainable
Manufacturing

Operational
Efficiency

DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION LEVERS
Predictive
Equipment

Predictive
Quality

Digital
Workforce

Cybersecurity Management

Chakan plant
was awarded the
highest GOLD
rating in the
India Green
Manufacturing
Challenge 2023.
This national
program, in
collaboration
with CNBC TV18,
recognises
manufacturing
firms that have
made significant
strides in
improving
sustainability in
their facilities.

Considering the growth in business volume and new product launches, state-of-the-art
industrial control security systems have been implemented to protect IT assets from
threats. Additionally, Application Performance Management (APM) systems have been
initiated to proactively manage business interruption risks.

MANUFACTURING MILESTONES - AS
Chakan Plant
l Crossed 2.5 Lakh vehicle production -

highest ever in a year by any plant

l Cumulative vehicle production

crossed 1.6 million since inception

Nashik Plant
l Produced 1.84 lakh vehicles. This is

the highest ever production by the plant

l Scorpio assembly line alone produced

more than 1.1 lakh vehicles, includes
the brands Thar and Scorpio Classic

Kandivali Plant
l Achieved highest ever vehicle

production with more than 1 lakh
vehicles

l Produced 6 lakh+ axles and 3.9 lakh

transmissions in F23 – a record for the
plant

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
The Farm Equipment Sector continued to create products aimed at enhancing farm
productivity and, thereby, rural prosperity. In F23, FES production saw some recordbreaking numbers. It is also consistently working towards meeting the changing
needs of the agriculture sector, with a complete range of farm machinery products
and solutions beyond tractors.

The Zaheerabad
team received
CII- Pinnacle
Awards for
Excellence in
Manufacturing
in three domains Production,
Collaboration,
and Behavioural
Aspects.

MADE IN INDIA, MADE FOR INDIA
In November 2022, FES inaugurated its first dedicated farm machinery plant in Pithampur,
Madhya Pradesh. The plant is strategically located with access to a diverse supplier base,
enabling the Company to manufacture durable, high-quality, affordable and accessible
'Made in India, for India's farm machinery, marketed in both the Mahindra and Swaraj
brands. The plant will also manufacture products for export to global markets in Asia,
Africa, Europe and America.

MANUFACTURING MILESTONES - FES
Swaraj Tractors rolled out its 20 Lakh tractor from the Mohali Plant in September 2022.
Since its inception in 1974, the first milestone of 10 lakh tractor production was
achieved in 2013. Now within a span of just nine years, it accomplished 20 Lakh tractor
production. This is a testimony of the faster growth of the brand Swaraj. In addition,
numerous FES plants also crossed milestone production figures this year:
Rudrapur Plant

Zaheerabad Plant

l 8,00,000

l 3,00,000

Tractor and
9,50,000 Gearbox

Tractor

The women
empowerment
initiatives of FES
Nagpur and Jaipur
plants received
the Global CSR
Excellence Award
by World CSR
Congress.

12

13

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

At Mahindra, we constantly push the boundaries of possibilities to create products
and technology-led services that enable our customers and stakeholders to Rise.
By refreshing our strategy, focussing on customer centricity, delivering accessible
technology, innovation and enhancing people capabilities, we continue to drive growth,
expand reach and create value.

STRATEGIC OVERVIEW
M&M has
been the best
performing
stock in
Nifty 50 since
2002 , with
Total
Shareholder
Returns of
27%.

Historically, we have been a leader in value creation for our shareholders. M&M has
been the best performing stock in Nifty 50 since 2002, with Total Shareholder Returns
of 27%, over the last 20 years. Our action on Capital Allocation and pivot to growth
has resulted in spectacular TSR of 57% in the last year, second amongst all Nifty 50
companies.

Regained #1 position in value creation
M&M is best-performing stock in Ni y50 since 2002
1 in last 20 years
Company

Nifty50 companies considered at the
point in time (20, 5, and 1 year back as
on 31 March of the corresponding years)
Note: TSR stands for Total Shareholder
Returns, calculated as capital gains
(increase in stock price) + dividends
adjusted for stock splits, bonus issues, etc.
TSR returns taken as avg. of monthly
closing of Jan, Feb and March for the
corresponding years.

2ⁿ in last 1 year
Company

TSR%

Ranking

TSR%

Mahindra

27%

1

ITC

68%

1

Britannia

27%

2

Mahindra

57%

2
3

Ranking

Dabur India

26%

3

Coal India

41%

Bajaj Holdings

26%

4

NTPC

34%

4

HCL Tech

25%

5

Britannia

32%

5

Sun Pharma

25%

6

Eicher Motors

21%

6

NIIT Ltd.

25%

7

IndusInd Bank

18%

7

HDFC Bank

24%

8

L&T

17%

8

L&T

24%

9

ICICI Bank

16%

9

Tata Chemicals

24%

10

HUL

15%

10

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Following a dip in returns in F19 and F20, we embarked on a bold strategy that began
with capital allocation in F21 to steer a turnaround of or exit of loss-making companies
and pivoting our core and growth gem businesses to growth as can be seen in the
following charts.

CAPITAL ALLOCATION
Turnaround

PAT ^(J Cr) Loss making entities

Exit

F23

(26)*

(3,429)

F20

MeraKisan

In Process

* FY23 PAT is for continuing operations and does not include any losses of exited entities. It excludes hyperinflation accounting impact of INR 120 Cr for Turkish operations
^ International Auto & Farm operations; PAT After NCI, before EI

TRANSFORMING OUR CORE BUSINESSES
Actions

Auto

l

5 mega launches…Quantum leap

l

Regaining EV leadership; $9.1 Bn valuation

MMFSL

TechM

Transform

UV revenue MS

13.2%

19.6%

Q4F20

Q4F23

Strengthened leadership through new launches
and network expansion

Market share

Farm machinery revenue growth by 40%

39.4%

40.7%

l

Q4F20

Q4F23

l

Leadership, Asset quality, Tech and Data

l

Transformation underway

l

Early wins in large deals

l

Farm

Outcomes

l

Succession plan in place

l

Margin transformation to commence in F24

* Refers to gross stage 3 delinquent contracts

GNPA*

8.4%

4.5%

Q4F20

Q4F23

14

15

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

ESTABLISHING THE GROWTH GEMS
Progress made so far

Unlock

þ 67% market share in 3W EV; IFC investment

<100

+630 Mn

734

þ OTPP investment to accelerate scale-up

<200

+90 Mn

290

þ Robust launch pipeline with 9 launches;

120

+550 Mn

670

230

+430 Mn

660

200

+120 Mn

320

4,000+ Crs GDV acquired

Growth Gems

þ Customer & inventory adds, curated

customer experience
þ Integrated logistics play with multiple

Growth
Mindset

Valuation¹ ($ Min) FY23

FY20

acquisitions

Revenue ($ Mn)
þ Pivot to decarbonising of

182

+332 Mn

514

þ Retail scale-up across multiple formats

50

+91 Mn

141

þ New launches, distribution scale up

56

+28 Mn

84

Mobility and Energy
Emerging

Emerging

and exports

1. Closing value as of 31 March for corresponding years;
2. F20 Valuation based on rough estimate of Jeeto and 3 Wheelers ICE portfolio;
3. Investment by a wholly owned subsidiary of Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Board “OTPP”
Note: For FY20: $1 = INR 74.1; For FY23: $1 = INR 81.7

On track to achieve target

PAT LENS - HISTORY OF VALUE CREATION WITH ACCELERATING TRAJECTORY
Through our commitment to Reigniting Value Creation, we successfully steered the Group to reach an ROE of 19.9% in F23.
The PAT at consolidated level has seen a significant growth as can be seen from the following chart.
PAT* FY2002-2023

(J Cr)

+75%

10,282

-5%
4,667
66

FY02

3,347

+43%
FY14

* After Exceptional Items after Non-Controlling Interest | ^ PAT after EI for continuing operations
For more information about our commitment to Reigniting Value Creation, please refer to our Analyst presentation:
https://www.mahindra.com/sites/default/files/2023-05/M-M-Analyst-Meet-2023-Presentations-deck-26 -May-2023.pdf

^

FY21

FY23

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

STRATEGIC OVERVIEW - AFS
In the following section, we cover in more detail how we are pivoting to growth in the
Auto and Farm Sectors.
We closed F23 as India's 4 Largest Passenger Vehicle Company, No.3 SUV maker (by
volume) and No.1 SUV maker (by revenue). We are the country's second Largest
Commercial Vehicle Company, the largest Small Commercial Vehicle Company (<3.5T) and
also the No.1 CV Exporter. Our share of the total Indian Auto Industry stood at 12.6%.

Our share
of the total
Indian Auto
Industry
stood at
12.6%.

We remain committed as ever to build the SUV brand reputation for its Authenticity and
Sophistication. The runaway success of the Scorpio-N and incredible booking pipeline for
all our passenger vehicles are testament to our core pillars of Capability, Performance,
Safety, Technology and Sophistication. We have initiated strong and bold moves to pivot
growth in the Automotive Sector by:
Customer Obsessed Brands
Differentiated SUV brand experience,
innovative omni-channel models.

Propel ICE SUVs with Cutting-edge
Products Turn-on design, democratise
technology, class-leading performance,
advanced safety, premiumisation.

Pioneering a New Era with Category
Creating E-SUVs Purpose-built platforms,
Software defined architecture, Ecosystem
partnership approach.

Build CV Moat Higher earnings with
Maxx Pik-Up range as core proposition
and launch new portfolio of pickups.

Go Global Scale up priority markets by leveraging the new Global PU and Electric SUVs.

16

17

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

5 mega
launches with
~292K open
bookings*

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Building an
SUV Legacy

Strengthening
Leadership in LCV

We foresee that our core auto brands will
continue to remain in strong momentum,
aided by the strong booking momentum
of new additions like the Scorpio-N, and
the continuing success of the Bolero Neo
and the Thar.

In F23, we retained our No.1 position in
LCV <3.5T segment with 45.5% market
share for the ninth consecutive year. This
year, we further solidified our leadership
position in the light commercial vehicles
segment by revamping the entire Pik-Up
range to provide significant value upgrade.

*(as on 1 May, 2023)

Developing the EV Strategy
In line with our EV vision, we announced
to make investments of INR 10 thousand
crore over a horizon of 7-8 years through
our subsidiaries. These investments
shall be for setting up the manufacturing
facility, development, and production of
our upcoming Electric Vehicles. We
reinforced our vision by setting-up
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
(“MEAL”), valued at USD 9 Billion
(INR 70 thousand crores) with an
investment from British International
Investment (BII). In parallel, Last Mile

Mobility (LMM) is following suit with a
valuation of INR 6 thousand crores with
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
investing to further electrification in
the last mile segment.
We showcased our audacious vision for
the future of electric mobility with the
unveiling of our new state-of-the-art EV
platform INGLO and five new production
ready e-SUVs under two EV brands
(Mahindra Twin Peak and BE). The EV 3Ws
hit record sales and a dominant market
leadership position with ~65% share.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
Our constant endeavour is to serve our farmers, revolutionise farming, and in the
process, enrich the lives of farmers. We continued to remain the world's largest tractor
manufacturer by volume in F23. We see an aggressive growth strategy for the farm
sector fuelled by growth in domestic tractor market share, in farm machinery, technology
and quantum jump in global farm businesses.

With

3,89,531
tractors sold in
domestic market,
F23 marks our
highest ever
tractor volumes
sales achieved.
Includes Mahindra, Swaraj
& Gromax brands

Build a domestic fortress through by
consistently growing the market share
and ensuring industry-best profitability.

Significantly grow international
business with a focus on product
launches and new market entry.

Pioneering technology leadership like
electrification, automation, IoT devices.

Scale Farm Machinery exponentially
in India by building the product portfolio
and channel expansion.

Leverage partnerships for FM and global growth, and for technology solutions.

Core Domestic
Our two core brands, Mahindra and
Swaraj are well-positioned to strengthen
our leadership in the domestic market.
Besides rolling out new products and
other enablers like financing, digitisation
and service quality, we are also focussing
on better dealer penetration, supply chain
ramp up, ensuring aggressive pricing of
our products, and working with partners
to strengthen our offerings in the space.

Growth in Farm Mechanisation
We have aggressive plans to grow our
Farm Machinery business, through launch
of 'Made in India' farm machinery products.
These include rotary tillers, harvesters, and
rice transplanters amongst others. During
the year, Mahindra Farm Machinery clocked
highest ever revenue with YoY 40%
growth. This growth was driven by record
performance in rotary tillers, threshers and
Super Seeders. The launch of the new

Heavy Rotavator and Supervator also
helped the volumes grow. CODE, the multipurpose horticulture farm mechanisation
solution by Swaraj Tractors also grew
significantly in F23. We will continue to
launch new implements and farm
machinery in the country through our
Centres of Excellence (CoEs) in Turkey,
Finland and Japan.

Quantum Jump in Global
Farm Businesses
In F23, we achieved a record of the
highest ever volume and revenue by
exporting 18,014 Tractors.
This growth can be attributed to higher
retails in several markets where we have
distribution operations including the USA,
Brazil, Bangladesh, Australia and various
African markets like Mali, Tanzania. We
also made significant growth in business
through tenders and bulk orders from
markets like Benin, Kenya, Guyana, etc.

With market
share at

41.2%

in F23, we
continued to be
the domestic
market leader
for the

40

consecutive year.

18

19

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES
Our business is exposed to many internal and external risks and consequently, we have
institutionalised robust systems and processes, along with appropriate review mechanisms
to actively identify, monitor, manage and mitigate these risks. Risk factors that emerged in
F22 include global shortage of specific commodities like semi-conductors, supply chain issues
due to localised lockdowns and Russia-Ukraine conflict and increasing commodity prices.

Key Risks & Risk Mitigation Initiatives
Competitive Intensity

New Products and Technologies

l Invest in new product development,

l A comprehensive program for

technology upgrades, increasing
channel reach, and focus on delivering
customer centric products, services and
build brand with an aim to remain
competitive in the market.

New Emission Norms

Environment and Alternate Fuels

l The Company has successfully

l Actively pursuing development of the

transitioned to BS6 phase 2 emission
norms across all its portfolio products
well in time. In its commitment to
improve fuel efficiency and reduce the
overall carbon footprint (CAFÉ 2), the
Company has adopted advanced
combustion technologies and right
product level electrification strategy.
l The revised emission norms BS TREM IV

We have set
up a dedicated
new plant at
Pithampur
spread over
23 acres with
a capacity to
manufacture
1,200 combine
harvesters and
3,300 rice
transplanters
per year.

development of new products and
technologies that will enable us to
remain competitive in the market, cater
to emerging customer expectations and
to meet any legislative requirements.

for tractors, implemented from January
2023, are applicable to tractors over
50HP which is 7-8% of the overall
industry volumes. We have realigned
our product portfolio, through the
launch of new products, along with
upgrades of existing ones to meet the
TREM IV norms.

Capacity
l Have built adequate manufacturing

capacity for the immediate future and
are in the process of investing in
additional capacity as part of our mid
to long-term strategy.
l Launched a new plant at Pithampur

to manufacture farm equipments like
rice transplanters, potato planters and
harvesters.
l Swaraj Division setting up a new

manufacturing plant in Mohali to create
additional capacity.

Electric Vehicle (EV) market, products,
and technology.

New Regulation for Safety
l Geared up and confident of meeting

any new regulations introduced.

Commodity Prices
l Remain focused on cost reduction

through measures like VA/VE,
negotiation with suppliers, long term
price contracting, etc.
l Continue to watch the market situation

closely and focus on mitigating
commodity price volatility through
'Commodity Risk Management'.

Monsoon
l Going into F24, the IMD in its first long

range forecast for the monsoon season
predicted SW Monsoon (June to Sept)
to be normal at 96% of the LPA.
However, with the concerns of EL Nino,
there is possibility of either spatial or
temporal distribution disruption.
l Nevertheless, given that reservoir levels

in April 2023 were 20% higher than
average, and that there has been excess
rainfall in pre-monsoon months,
potential El-Nino impact is not expected
to cause a major disruption.

In addition, there are risks like significant variations in monsoon and depletion in reservoir
levels that we must address on a year-on-year basis.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

OPPORTUNITIES & OUTLOOK
Both the Auto and Farm Sectors aim to safeguard and support their positions in the
local market while also striving to expand India's presence globally by means of robust
exports. Meanwhile, our efforts remain dedicated to attaining cost leadership by
emphasising targeted cost optimisation, enhancing productivity, implementing value
engineering, managing the supply chain efficiently, and capitalising on synergies among
different group enterprises.

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR

FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR

In F23, the Indian auto industry showed
double digit growth across all segments.
Passenger vehicles have reached new
highest ever mark with 3.89 million sales
units while commercial vehicles are still
below F19 levels by 4.5%.

The mid to long-term outlook for the
Indian tractor industry is positive. Several
initiatives taken by the Government are
driving higher rural incomes. This includes
higher diversification towards high value
crops and agriculture accelerator fund to
promote technological advancement in
agriculture, etc. In addition, increase in
allocation of Government budgets on
infrastructure and rural development is
likely to benefit commercial demand.

Factors that may significantly impact
demand for automobiles in F23 are:
l Supply shortage of semiconductors

in first half of F23
l Policies by the Government to boost

consumption
l Aggressive Government push for

infrastructure-led growth
l Increase in cost of ownership due to

hikes in commodity and fuel prices

Demand for mechanisation is also
growing as shortage of agricultural labour
will lead to increase in labour cost. An
increasing trend of more farmers seeking
technical inputs in agriculture also
reflects the growth of progressive
farmers.

For detailed information on the risks and opportunities and outlook, please refer to the Management Discussion
and Analysis section, in the Integrated Annual Report 2022-23.

As per the
Automotive
Mission Plan
2026 (AMP
2026), the mid
to long-term
outlook for the
Indian auto
industry is
positive.

20

21

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL
INPUT
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
Total Segment Capital Employed (J Cr)

14,832

Gross Debt to Equity Ratio

0.11

Net Capital Expenditure (J Cr)

3,431

MANUFACTURED CAPITAL

Business Model showing Principal Activities

Governance
Key Aspects

Number of Plants in India

21

Material Cost (J Cr)

64,558

Key Raw Materials

Steel, Iron, Rubber, Glass,
Aluminium, Copper, etc.

STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENT

RISKS AND
OPPORTUNITIES

STRATEGY & RESOURCE
ALLOCATION

INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
R&D Nodes

MRV-led R&D centres, Pininfarina, MANA,
M.A.D.E., MIDS, MAM, Sampo Rosenlew

Patents Applied (nos.)

182

Design Registrations Applied (nos.)

102

Patents Granted (nos.)

182

Design Registrations Granted (nos.)

104

Testing, Proof
of Concept and
Finalisations
R&D, Design and
Development

HUMAN CAPITAL
Number of Permanent Employees (nos.)

23,495

Temporary / Casual /
Contractual Employees (nos.)

38,379

Unionised Permanent Workforce (%)

91

Employee Beneﬁt Expense (J Cr)

3,650

Permanent Women Employees (nos.)

833

NATURAL CAPITAL
% of Renewable Electricity

New Features,
Technologies,
Upgrades and
Variants

32

Total Energy Consumption (GJ)
3

Total Water Consumption (m )

Raw Materials
and Other Input
Procurement

24,68,215
20,27,067

SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
CSR Investment (J Cr)

92.28

ESOP Hours

55,272

Employee Volunteers for
Various Services (nos.)

10,587

Key Focus Areas

Human Resources | Accounts | Finance & Compliance | IT | Customer Service
Corporate Strategy & Planning | Research & Development | Safety, Health &
SUPPORT FUNCTIONS

Education, Women Empowerment,
Skill development, Environment, Rural
Development, Health & Sanitation

Note: Patents and Design Registrations are including Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) and the IPs transferred from Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (MEML) to M&M

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

22

OUTPUT
FINANCIAL CAPITAL

Mission, Vision, Values,
Code of Conduct and
Policy Framework

Outcomes

Total Operating Revenue (J Cr)

84,960

EBIDTA (J Cr)

10,442

Net Proﬁt (before EI) (J Cr)

7,978

Dividend from Group Companies (J Cr)

1,607

MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
PERFORMANCE

Total Automotive Vehicles Sold (nos.)

OUTLOOK

6,98,456

Passenger Vehicles (nos.)

3,59,253

Commercial Vehicles (nos.)

2,48,576

ree-Wheelers (nos.)

58,520

Automotive Exports (nos.)
Total Tractors Sold (nos.)*

32,107
4,07,545

INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL

Farm
Equipment
Tractors,
Implements
Manufacturing,
Assembly and Final
Production

Automotive
Vehicles
ICE, Electric

New Products
Launched

Auto: Scorpio-N, Scorpio Classic, XUV400,
XUV300 TurboSport™, All-new range of the
ar, Bolero Maxx Pik-Up, New Jeeto Plus CNG
CharSau, Zor Grand Electric, CRUZIO range of
Buses Farm: Yuvo Tech+ Series, Swaraj 744XT,
New Heavy Rotavator, Supervator

New
Technologies

iMaXX telematics solution, new state-of-the-art
EV platform INGLO, leveraging multiple
emerging technologies, including EVs, digitalenabled platforms and HMI with so waredeﬁned vehicles.

Cumulative Patents
Granted as of F23 (nos.)

511

HUMAN CAPITAL

Customers

Distribution,
Shipping and
Logistics

Technology,
Innovation,
Design &
Digital
Solutions
and Services

Environment | Corporate Communications | Marketing &
Business Development | Business & Environment | CSR

* includes Mahindra, Swaraj & Gromax brands
# (Includes the newly enrolled 14,562 girls in Nanhi Kali a er school programme in F23 + 15,000
girls trained under Nanhi Kali Life skills & Digital Skill training programme)
$ (1,03,699 Women and 1,252 Men)

Permanent Employees Trained (nos.)

22,358

Temp / Casual / Contractual
Employees Trained (nos.)

20,467

Complaints on Child / Involuntary Labour

NIL

Complaints on Discriminatory Employment
(Sexual Harassment Complaints)

9

NATURAL CAPITAL
GHG Emissions (Scope 1 - tCO2)
GHG Emissions (Scope 2 - tCO2)
Energy Saved (GJ)
Water Reused (%)
GHG Mitigation (tCO2)

58,935
2,02,306
82,921
43
11,716

SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Girls Supported under Nanhi Kali (nos.)

67,658#

Women / Men Trained at
Mahindra Pride Classrooms (lakh nos.)

1,04,951$

Women Farmers Supported
under Project Prerna (nos.)

11,111

Total Trees Planted under
Project Hariyali (million nos.)

1.59

23

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

PRODUCT LAUNCHES
Our products transcend mere existence; they embody the very essence of our purpose —
to ignite the indomitable spirit within people and inspiring them to Rise. Each creation is
a testament to the relentless pursuit of excellence, woven meticulously with the threads
of human ingenuity, unwavering determination and unwavering will.

XUV4OO

SCORPIO CLASSIC

The All-Electric SUV

A New Avatar of the
Legendary Scorpio SUV

Our EV game plan is at the core of our
commitment of achieving carbon
neutrality by 2040. In line with this
commitment, we unveiled the XUV4OO on
9 September, 2022 - the eve of World
EV Day. It is our first EV to feature the
twin peaks logo with satin copper finish.

The XUV4OO
has set new
benchmarks for
electric SUVs,
paving the way
for a sustainable
and electrifying
future.

The XUV4OO embodies cutting-edge
technology, remarkable features, and
exhilarating performance. It provides
ample cabin space, luxurious legroom,
and abundant shoulder space to its
occupants. It also delivers an exciting
driving experience by reaching 0 to 100
kmph in an astonishing 8.3 seconds –
making it the fastest accelerating nonluxury Indian-made passenger vehicle. In
addition to performance, the XUV4OO,
with its 39.4 kWh battery pack, also
provides an anxiety-free driving range of
456 km according to Indian driving cycle
standards (MIDC).

To celebrate 20 years of the iconic
Scorpio, we launched the Scorpio Classic,
the new avatar of our legendary SUV.
This SUV boasts superior performance –
powered by an all-aluminium lightweight
GEN-2 mHawk engine, producing a
whopping 97 kW (132 PS) of power and
300 Nm torque. Compared to the
previous model, the engine is 55 kg
lighter and 14 percent more fuel
efficient. With its powerful performance
and iconic design, the Scorpio Classic
embodies the essence of our brand.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

XUV3OO TGDi
The Best Gets Turbocharged
In October 2022, we expanded the
XUV3OO line-up by adding the XUV3OO
TGDi - a new turbo-petrol engine option.
The Mahindra XUV3OO TGDi is the first
Mahindra SUV to be powered by an allnew 1.2 L mStallion TGDi engine that
boasts of unrivalled performance. Taking
off from 0-60 km/h in 5 seconds, the
XUV300 TurboSport™ series packs
performance of 130PS and 230 Nm –
making it the fastest ICE SUV under
INR 15 lakhs.

THE ALL-NEW THAR RANGE
The Iconic Becomes
More Accessible

ALL-NEW SCORPIO-N
M&M launched the highly anticipated the
All-new 'Scorpio-N', an SUV engineered
from ground-up to meet the aspirations
of the young and tech-savvy customers.
Scorpio-N comes with premium interiors,
advanced features, and the latest
technology, two engine options with
manual and automatic transmissions,
and a 4x4 option.
Designed at Pininfarina, Italy and Mahindra
India Design Studio (MIDS), Mumbai and
engineered by the teams at Mahindra
Research Valley (MRV) near Chennai and
Mahindra North American Technical
Center (MNATC) in USA, and manufactured
at the state-of-the-art world-class facility
at Chakan, Pune, the All-New Scorpio-N is
truly a global product.

ZOR GRAND ELECTRIC

A Game-changer in Last-mile
Cargo Delivery
Launched in August 2022, the Mahindra
Zor Grand Electric revolutionises the lastmile delivery and logistics segment. It
comes with the NEMO connected vehicle
platform for fleet management and better
operational efficiency, as well as an alldigital instrument cluster that shows
State of Charge (SoC), range,
speedometer, battery health indicator and
the tell-tale lights.
Since its launch in 2020, the Mahindra
Thar has captured the imagination of SUV
lovers. To make our offering even better,
this year, we listened to our customers
and engineered a new range of the Thar
with important enhancements.
The all-new range includes Rear Wheel
Drive (RWD) variants in two engine
options and enhanced capability in the
Four-Wheel Drive (4WD) variants. It was
introduced at an attractive price point of
INR 9.99 Lakh, making it accessible to a
wider customer base of SUV buyers.

The Mahindra Zor Grand Electric claims
best-in-industry power of 12 kW that
ensures superlative performance, more
trips, and more earning. It has a range of
more than 100 km per charge and the
advanced Lithium-ion technology battery
ensures a charging time of less than four
hours.
Soon after the launch, Zor Grand
registered 12,000+ bookings through
strategic MoUs with leading logistic
companies like Mahindra Logistics,
Magenta EV Solutions, MoEVing, EVnow,
Yelo EV, Zyngo and more.

Owing to
competent
engineering and
product
development
right from the
outset, the AllNew Scorpio-N
has the lowest
CO2 emission in
the segment.

24

25

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

BOLERO MAXX PIK-UP
The Future of Pickups

To further consolidate our position as a leader in the Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV)
(2-to-3.5-ton) category, we launched all new Bolero MaXX Pik-Up. This rugged and
powerful vehicle is designed to conquer the cities and tackle heavy loads effortlessly.
With a payload capacity of 1,300 Kg and the widest cargo in the category at 1,700 mm,
the Bolero Maxx Pik-Up ensures superior hauling capabilities. Equipped with a trusted
m2Di engine, it offers an exceptional mileage of 17.2 km/l, best-in-class torque of
195Nm, and 48.5kW (65 hp) power.
Bolero Maxx Pik-Up also offers first in class features like Height adjustable driver
seat for better comfort and Turn safe light for more safety for drivers. The Bolero Maxx
Pik-up boasts of the advanced iMaXX telematics solution, enabling effective vehicle
management and maximizing business productivity.

JEETO PLUS CNG CHARSAU

SWARAJ 744XT

The New Game-changer CV

Unrivalled Power,
Outstanding Performance

We understand the growing challenges of
the transport business and constantly
strive to provide suitable solutions in line
with the evolving demands of our
customers. Jeeto Plus CNG CharSau is
designed to provide unmatched efficiency
and cost-effectiveness for urban
transportation needs. It boasts of
unmatched range of up to 400 km (hence
the name CharSau which means 400 in
Hindi) with best-in-class mileage of 35.1
km/kg. It also offers excellent
manoeuvrability owing to a small turning
circle radius of 4.3 metre offering ease of
navigation across narrow and crowded
city roads. When combined with its
industry-leading load carrying capacity of
650kg, the New Jeeto Plus CNG CharSau
is ideally positioned to boost profitability
and deliver improved prosperity to the
customers.

In July 2022, Swaraj Tractors launched
the 744 XT, in the 50 HP category in
Nepal. This tractor features one of the
biggest engines in its category, with
3,478 cc displacement, that delivers
maximum performance in agri and
haulage applications.
The 744 XT comes standard with a
constant mesh transmission, Multispeed
forward and reverse PTO, Dual clutch,
Oil immersed disc brakes, Power steering
and offers high ground clearance with
bigger front tyres. With directional control
valve and best-in-class lift capacity of
1,700 kgs, the 744 XT can handle heavy
implements with ease and precision.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

YUVO TECH+ SERIES
The Advanced, Versatile Farm Machines

Expanding the popular Yuvo Tech+ range, in F23, we launched six new models in the
37 – 50 HP (27.6 – 36.7 kW) power band. The new launches include the 275 Yuvo Tech+,
405 Yuvo Tech+ and 415 Yuvo Tech+ with the 3-cylinder m-ZIP engine, and the 475 Yuvo
Tech+, 575 Yuvo Tech+ and 585 Yuvo Tech+ with the 4 Cylinder ELS engine. They come
with key features such as 4-wheel drive, Dual Clutch, SLIPTO, Auxiliary Valve and 2-speed
PTO which making it suitable for more than 30 agri applications.
Mahindra Yuvo Tech+ is designed and developed at Mahindra's Research Valley (MRV) in
Chennai with world-class standards. The new tractors are powered by Mahindra Tractors'
new m-ZIP 3-cylinder and ELS 4-cylinder engines, delivering best-in-class power, torque
and mileage.

TREM IV TRACTORS

KRISH-E SMART KIT
Digitising the Indian Farms
An industry first aftermarket IoT solution,
the Krish-e Smart Kit presents the
smartest, most affordable and sustainable
way for farmers and businesses to
connect and monitor their farm
equipment on the go.
The Kit provides equipment owners with
detailed insights of their tractors and
farm equipment of any brand, through
GPS enabled time tracking and remote
monitoring of various parameters from
the comfort of a smart phone. This
enables equipment owners and rental
entrepreneurs to improve fleet
performance, increase incomes and
manage maintenance costs, while
reducing tractor downtime and preventing
unauthorised usage of their tractors.

26

27

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

DIGITAL CAPABILITIES
In F23, we built upon the strong
momentum we had in F22 and took
our efforts to the next level. Our primary
aim has been to ensure that we are
future-ready in all aspects of digital
and technology.
To achieve this, we have standardised
our processes and established central
technology capabilities, supported by
expert teams.

This strategic move has enabled us to
create synergy across the entire Group.
By centralizing our services and
capabilities, we have eliminated repetitive
work and fragmented negotiations among
various group companies. As a result, our
Group Companies now have more time
and resources to develop futuristic
strategies and enhance their customercentric approach.

Digital
First
M&M

Our primary
aim has been
to ensure that
we are futureready in all
aspects of digital
and technology.

BUILDING
EXEMPLARY
CUSTOMER &
EMPLOYEE
EXPERIENCES

BUILDING
INSTITUTIONAL
CAPABILITIES
FOR THE
FUTURE

CYBERSECURITY
& DATA PRIVACY

LEVERAGING
POWER OF
DATA &
PLATFORMS

EXPERIMENTING
WITH EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

BUILDING EXEMPLARY
CUSTOMER AND EMPLOYEE
EXPERIENCES
Scorpio-N Portal
A completely new, asynchronous, cloud
based, scalable and modular portal to
manage Scorpio-N's record-breaking
booking.

MTIS - Mahindra Technical
Information System
A cloud-based platform for
international dealership queries.
Being used by 1,200+ service
technicians across 80+ countries.

Krish-e Smart Kit
An innovative solution for improving
fleet performance and tractor
management, Krish-e has over 25,000
active subscribers, 85% DAUs (daily
active users), spending about 55
minutes per day on the app.

Project Anubhav
Enhances employee experience
with mobile apps, AI/chatbots, and
streamlined processes.

XUV4OOverse
The XUV4OO on the Metaverse provides
unique experiences such as Virtual
Brand Showroom, avatar customisation,
hyper-realistic 3D car configurator and
virtual test-drive.

Edcast
The digital Learning Experience
Platform has been rolled out to 21K
users within Mahindra Group to M&M,
Bristlecone, MFCWL and Mahindra
Finance.

Our first focus
area is the
digitisation of
customer and
employee
journeys. The
second focus
area is the use of
AI and Machine
Learning. And
third, is adopting
the cloud for
agility and
innovation.

Freshservice platform
To improve employee experience and
making our ITSM processes more
robust, we moved from traditional BMC
platform to a more user-friendly and
advanced Freshservice platform.

Agile CRM platform (Cerebro)
It has enhanced sales processes for
dealerships and unified user experience.
It was rolled out pan India across 439
dealerships with a view to make dealer
sales processes more efficient, user
friendly and collaborative.

Product Review Centre (PRC)
The Centre has been established at
Mahindra Research Valley to facilitate
high-resolution engineering reviews for
better alignment and quality.

Mohit Kapoor
Chief Technology Officer
Mahindra Group

28

29

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

BUILDING INSTITUTIONAL
CAPABILITIES FOR THE
FUTURE
Aarohan Initiative
It is a cloud transformation initiative
implemented with a vision to transform,
modernise customer to core footprint
and become future-ready together as a
Group. It has improved execution speed,
developer efficiency and carbon offset.

Cloud Centre of
Excellence (CCoE)

Digital
First
M&M

The Centre has been established
to oversee and support the
implementation of the organisationwide cloud strategy.

O ce of Enterprise
Architecture (OEA)
Part of Mahindra Digital Engine, it is
institutionalising architectural discipline
and governance for Mahindra Group.

LEVERAGING POWER
OF DATA & PLATFORMS
Data Science
l Mahindra Digital Engine (MDE)

Mahindra
Intelligent
Document
Indexing (MIDI)
Engine, developed
in-house, utilises
deep learning,
computer vision
and analytics
to automate the
process of
documents
processing
across different
businesses.

partnered with EV NEMO team to
enable delivery of strategic as well
as tactical analytics to different
stakeholders across various group
companies and functions.

been cascaded to the sales team at
showrooms across multiple states.
l The Data science team is leveraging

generative language transformer
models for enhancing the efficiency
of data innovation and creating
product offerings around it.

Mahindra Platform as
Service (mPaaS)
mPaaS (Mahindra Platform as a
service), a multi-cloud platform, allows
users to experiment and innovate
quickly using cloud resources from
GCP, Azure, and AWS. It is streamlining
infrastructure provisioning with over
10 major automations, improving
developer efficiency by automating
and securing infrastructure provisioning
and ensuring cost transparency and
compliance with security policies.

Data Engineering as
a Service (DaaS)
To democratise data for business users
and to assist them in better decision
making (DaaS) has been built. It enables
business users to quickly bring their
data from various sources to a single
place where they can classify, clean,
encrypt and catalogue their data.

l State Of Health (SOH) Analysis

utilises data across vehicles to
improve the product performance
while reducing the irreversible
damage of the battery, further
improving the customer experience.
l Data Community, a collaborative

platform for data enthusiast,
decision makers, data scientists and
business users, has been launched to
establish a data-driven decisionmaking culture.
l Data driven marketing pitches with

facts and selling points of the EV
offerings in local languages have

CYBERSECURITY
& DATA PRIVACY
Cloud Security
Implemented Prisma cloud security
across all 3 hyperscalers (GCP, MS
Azure and AWS) that we currently
utilise. This gives us clear visibility of
security threat and misconfiguration
covering cloud workload protection,
cloud Identity security, infrastructure
as code scanning, etc.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

DevSecOps

Digital Human Project

We adopted DevSecOps platform to
improve the end-to-end code quality
security from the development stage
to production deployment.

To test the power of AI, the team at
Mahindra Digital Engine along with our
development partner Uneeq created a
digital human - a digital avatar of
Mr. Anand Mahindra. The Digital Human
uses artificial intelligence and natural
language processing to synthesise
answers to questions that one may
have on our Rise philosophy, Leadership
and Sustainability.

NAC (Network Access Control)
NAC has been implemented to improve
the overall enterprise network infra
visibility and access management
through policy enforcement on
authorised devices and users.

IT-OT Segregation
Segregation of OT network from IT
network is recommended, for better
visibility, security of IT layer and to
enable 3 party vendor to access OT
devices securely when required.

DDoS (Distributed Denial
of Service) Protection
To secure the enterprise network from
malicious attacks and avoid down-time
of critical business operations, cloud
based Anti-DDOS mitigation services
have been implemented for data
centres. This helps filter out malicious
traffic before it impacts the network
and servers.

EXPERIMENTING
WITH EMERGING
TECHNOLOGIES
Drone-based vehicle
inventory management
We have deployed a drone-based
solution that accurately geotags
vehicles in the yard against their
unique identification numbers, thereby
enabling accurate vehicle tracking,
quick navigation and saving significant
time and efforts of drivers.

Following a successful soft launch and
with testing underway, Mahindra Digital
Engine is planned for launch across the
Mahindra Group in the near future.

Paint Defect Inspection
using computer vision
A Next Generation Paint Defect
Inspection system has been employed. It
uses Artificial Intelligence, Edge
Computing and Computer Vision to
identify Paint Defects in just 20 seconds
with more than 95% accuracy, resulting
in better quality, fewer complaints and
more satisfied customers.

Smart Engine testing using AI
A SMART machine learning model was
built and deployed across various plants
to bring down hot firing and load
testing to 10% and leading to savings
of around INR 200 per engine.

Digital manufacturing
Extensive use of digital manufacturing
technologies such as simulations,
analytics, 3D factory and collaboration
to design and setup world class facilities
and deliver best in class products.

Manufacturing NEXT
A programme institutionalised to expedite
our digital transformation efforts and
become a technology leader leveraging
advanced analytics and automation to
deliver exponential impact.

30

31

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD
ESG LEADERSHIP
At Mahindra, we prioritise the long-term sustainability of our business and understand
that strong and consistent ESG performance is critical to achieving that goal. Through
our sustained focus on Environmental, Social, and Governance factors, we are working to
ensure that our business activities contribute to a positive impact.
By bringing together nation-building and future-facing industries and communities, we are
co-creating a positive world where each one of us enables the other to Rise. This approach
aligns perfectly with our philosophy of #TogetherWeRise, where collaboration and shared
values drive us towards a common goal of a better world.

OUR TEN COMMITMENTS
We aim to set the gold standard in ESG, with our promise to achieve social change
and maintain financial balance. Our 10 commitments towards ESG will serve as the
foundation for our growth.

By bringing
together
nation-building
& future-facing
industries and
communities,
we are
co-creating a
positive world
where each one
of us enables
the other to
Rise.

For achieving these commitments, we aim to be Planet Positive, People Positive and
Trust Positive.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

PLANET POSITIVE
Environment

Our pledge to conserving natural
resources, reducing pollution, protecting
biodiversity and sustaining the
environment for future generations
remains strong as ever. Through
pioneering initiatives like electric vehicles
and a Group-wide commitment to become
carbon neutral by 2040, we are pushing
the boundaries of what is possible and
leading the way towards a more
sustainable future.

PEOPLE POSITIVE
Social

We are committed to making a positive
impact on the world around us – both
within and beyond our factories and
offices. We believe in creating and
maintaining a diverse, inclusive, vibrant,
and meritocratic work environment that
empowers and motivates our employees
to do their best work. Our CSR policy
focusses on empowering girls and women
through social investments, and our
massive tree plantation initiative is just
one of the ways we are working to
preserve the planet for future generations.

TRUST POSITIVE

Governance

We have built our success on a foundation
of strong, balanced, and sustainable
growth for all our stakeholders, and we
are committed to upholding the highest
standards of governance every step of
the way. By embracing a culture of
transparency, accountability, integrity
and responsibility, we are able to build
trust with our stakeholders and earn
our reputation as a Company that is
committed to doing things the right way.

Over the years, the consistency of our
efforts and the scale of impacts they
create, have helped us gain a leadership
role on numerous global platforms:
l In January 2023, Mahindra & Mahindra

was included in the World Index list of
companies in the Dow Jones
Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the
second consecutive year. Out of the six
Indian companies featured in the World
Index, two were Mahindra Group
companies – M&M and Tech Mahindra.
M&M is one of the nine companies
globally from the 'Auto & Component'
Sector in the World Index.
l Dr Anish Shah, MD and CEO, has been

nominated as Co-Chair for the World
Economic Forum (WEF)'s India Edition
of CEO Climate Leaders. It serves as a
high-level platform for business leaders
to support concrete plans and ideas to
step up India's climate action and
green transition efforts.
For us, ESG leadership does not just
stem from applauds and recognitions. It
manifests from recognising the symbiotic
relationship of Environmental, Social, and
Governance factors and leveraging them
to create long-term value for the
organisation, its stakeholders, and society.
In the next few sections, we will cover in
detail how our ESG performance is driving
growth at Mahindra.

For us, ESG
leadership does
not just stem
from applauds
and recognitions.
It manifests from
recognising the
symbiotic
relationship of
Environmental,
Social and
Governance
factors.

32

33

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

ENVIRONMENT

M&M became
the first Indian
Automobile
Company to
enter the World
Index of DJSI
for the 2nd
consecutive year.
It is one of the
nine companies
globally in the
'auto and
components'
sector of the
World Index.

Climate change is increasingly wreaking havoc to the natural, economic and social
systems in unprecedented ways. Unfortunately, the poor and the marginalised bear the
greater brunt of this crisis as it affects their livelihood, their habitat and access to
necessities like water, food and education. At Mahindra, we believe that to beat climate
change, we must Rise for a more equal world. To achieve this, we have adopted a 'Planet
Positive' approach in everything we do. For what is good for the world is good for
business too.
Our Planet Positive approach involves
reducing carbon emissions, replenishing
water sources, enriching biodiversity,
and creating carbon sinks. It also
encompasses improving the livelihoods
of communities and employees, creating
value for stakeholders, reducing ESG risks
and realising opportunities.
Since inception, we have prioritised
sustainability in our business practices,
and over the years, through our efforts
in environmental sustainability, we have
established ourselves as a globally
recognised, responsible Company.

We were the first Company globally
to commit to doubling its energy
productivity through the EP100 initiative.
We are committed to having all our
locations certified as 'Zero Waste to
Landfill' by 2030.
Under our 'Project Hariyali', we will plant
five million trees every year by F26, with
more than 22 million trees already
planted. We aspire to lead environmental,
social and governance (ESG) performance
parameters globally through such
sustained and focussed programmes.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

With a goal of becoming Planet
Positive by 2040, we are committed
to leading the way towards a
sustainable future for all and aim
to achieve the following goals:

For the last 15 years, we have been
disclosing information to all stakeholders
in a transparent manner through our
Sustainability Report based on the GRI
framework. Since F22, our sustainability
report also aligns with

Carbon Neutral by 2040

l Government of India's National

Committed to
Science Based
Targets

Guidelines on Responsible Business
Conduct (NGRBC)
l Task Force on Climate-related

Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
recommendations
1 % Renewable
Electrical Energy

l WEF's Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics

5 % by 2 25

l United Nations' Sustainable

(Internal Target)

1 % Improvement in
Energy Productivity

6 % by 2 26

Zero Waste to Landfill
100% Identified Sites

ZWL Certified
by 2 3

Development Goals (SDGs)
We have also been publishing the Annual
Integrated Report based on International
Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)
Framework since last four years. The IIRC
framework emphasises the importance of
natural capital as a critical component of
sustainable business practices. We
conserve, protect and improve Natural
Capital through the 3Cs approach:

Conservation of

1 Natural Resources
Continuous Improvement

2 towards Rejuvenation
Project Hariyali

Plant 5 million
trees/year by 2 26

Comprehensive

3 Disclosures

We have adopted
a 'Planet Positive'
approach in
everything we do.
For what is good
for the world is
good for business
too.

34

35

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

A cohesive framework, well-structured
processes and focused interventions are
the foundation of our environmental
management approach. We have launched
several key initiatives, including increasing
the share of alternative energy sources in
our operations, decarbonising the
industry and rejuvenating the planet.

KEY MATERIALITY ISSUES
Apart from being an important tool to
meet the expectations of the
stakeholders, materiality helps shape our
sustainability strategy, analyse risk
factors and upgrade the business process
for future opportunities. While we review
our materiality issues annually to identify
new topics, the materiality assessment is
conducted every three years when we
reset our roadmap.

We have been
consistently
working to
reduce GHG
emissions by
increasing energy
efficiency and
reducing
dependence on
non-renewable
sources of energy.

Internal and external stakeholders,
including top management, employees,
suppliers, dealers, customers, investors
and the community were identified and
engaged during the review process. Based
on these interactions and benchmarking
with industry peers, the material issues
were identified. This intense process of
mapping, prioritisation, preparation and
validation lead to the final materiality
matrix.
Our key material environment issues are:

Carbon
Emission
Water
Security
Waste to
Wealth
These core issues were given due
importance while formulating the
sustainability strategy. Some of the
highlights of our sustainability initiatives
are mentioned in this section.

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

REDUCTION OF
GREENHOUSE
GASES (GHG)
Every ton of reduction in GHG takes us
closer to our target of becoming carbon
neutral. The reduction in GHG also brings
down our carbon footprint, improves
employee and public safety, and reduces
pollution.

Key initiatives to
reduce GHG emissions
Green Portfolio
Mahindra Group has built several
businesses with green products and
services. The Green Portfolio includes
initiatives such as renewable energy,
auto recycling, green buildings,
micro-irrigation and electric vehicles.

Carbon Pricing
At Mahindra, we have established an
internal carbon pricing mechanism. It
serves multiple purposes: generating
funds to support low carbon projects,
aiding informed decision-making by
our management when investing in
eco-friendly initiatives, achieving our
emission reduction targets, and aligning
our operations and investments with the
transition towards a low carbon economy.
We have implemented a carbon price of
$10 per ton of CO2 emitted and have been
investing in innovative technologies and
processes to enhance energy efficiency.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Science-based Targets (SBT)

Key renewable energy
initiatives
Harnessing the Solar Power
Multiple M&M Units
We have set up a Special Purpose Vehicle
(SPV) between Solar Developer – ReNew
Power and various Mahindra units (the
power consumers). The SPV, in which
Mahindra has a 30% stake, owns and
maintains a 60MWp solar power project
spread across 150 acres at Parbhani,
Maharashtra, under a group captive model
for M&M Maharashtra's power
requirement.

As a Company operating in the
manufacturing and agricultural sectors,
Mahindra's operations are highly
vulnerable to climate change and
unpredictable weather events
necessitating resilience planning.
Mahindra is highly dependent on seasonal
monsoon, rising energy costs, restricted
access to raw materials like water as well
as changing consumer preferences.

As a result of this project, 79,000 tCO₂
emissions are avoided each year, which is
approximately 34% of FY22 Scope 2
emissions. This is equivalent to nurturing
around 2 million trees or powering
20,650 Indian houses for a year.

In F23, Automotive
Sector achieved

43.6%

and Farm Equipment
Sector achieved

23%

reduction in Scope 1+2
emissions with F19 as
the base year.

l In line with the Science-based target

initiative (SBTi), we have committed to
reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG
emissions by 47% per equivalent
product unit and Scope 3 GHG
emissions by 30% per sold product unit
by 2033 from a 2018 base year.
l We have also identified a non-renewable

energy consumption reduction target of
4.1% y-o-y for the next 15 years. This
target is in line with our SBT emission
reduction roadmap.

Renewable Energy
Accelerating the energy transition is a key
factor in increasing our ambition to reach
carbon neutrality and contribute to
counteracting the climate crisis. At
Mahindra, we are rapidly moving from
hydrocarbons to including more
affordable and non-polluting energy
sources in our mix, including solar and
wind. Our renewable electricity reached to
32% in F23 compared to 12% in F22.

Scaling New Heights
with Solar FD, Rudrapur
The contribution of a 248 KWp solar plant
(commissioned in F19) to the total power
consumption at the Rudrapur Tractor
Plant was only 5%. The team at Rudrapur
plant installed and commissioned a 760
KWp rooftop solar plant to increase the
contribution of solar power.
The project, commissioned in only 50 days
with zero safety incidents, raised the
percentage contribution of solar energy
to the energy mix at Rudrapur from 5%
to 20%, and reduced GHG emission by
900 TCO₂ annually.

In F23, M&M's
renewable electricity
consumption stood at

32%

36

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
Energy conservation helps us gain more control over the energy costs, reduces the
demand for Earth's natural resources, and contributes to our effort to reach the carbon
neutrality target. It drives improvements in operation and enhances process reliability
that leads to reduced downtime or shutdowns.
Environmental KPIs

F22

F23

Total Energy Consumption (GJ)

21,22,034

24,68,215

Total Water Consumption (m³)

16,03,486

20,27,067

GHG Emissions (Scope 1) (tCO₂)

55,451

58,935

2,33,939

2,02,306

GHG Emissions (Scope 2)

Note: Due to increase in production, energy consumption, water consumption and Scope 1 emissions are higher
in F23. However, because of adoption of renewable energy Scope 2 emissions has reduced significantly.

ENHANCING ENERGY
PRODUCTIVITY

We follow a holistic approach to
consistently enhance energy productivity.
We record energy productivity data
separately for AS (Automotive Sector)
and FES (Farm Equipment Sector).
Following is the EP data trend w.r.t.
baseline year (2008-09)

F21

F22

AS

Heat Recovery to reduce
PNG Consumption and
CO₂ Emissions Swaraj Plant 2
Swaraj Plant 2 was using PNG operated
burners and hot water generators to
achieve the required pre-treatment
process temperature for chassis
production, leading to high PNG
consumption. A heat recovery unit was
installed in the air compressors to
recover and reutilise waste heat from
the hot water rinse, knock-off degrease,
and degreasing stages of the chassis
pre-treatment zone.
The heat recovery units resulted:
l 23.3% reduction in PNG consumption

87%

61%

59%
F23

In F23, the sectors progressed on their
carbon neutrality targets. Here is one of
the many energy efficiency measures
undertaken during the reporting period.

of the hot water generator

94%

energy was saved
through sustained
energy saving
initiatives in F23.

55%

82,921 GJ

Apart from energy savings, energy
productivity increases operational
productivity which in turn improves
overall performance. This results in
enhanced production and capacity
utilisation, reduced resource use and
pollution, and lower operation and
maintenance costs. Therefore, at
Mahindra, we continue to monitor
energy productivity (EP) by coming up
with energy efficiency initiatives.

60%

37

F21 F22 F23

FES

l 31.68 Lac Kcal/Day reduction in

environment heat load
l 512.4 Tons/Year decrease in CO₂

emissions

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

WATER
CONSERVATION
Extreme weather events are making water
scarcer. Any imbalance between the
demand and supply of water disturbs the
natural, social and financial ecosystems.
Hence, water conservation is essential not
just to mitigate business risks but also
societal risks. We follow a holistic approach
towards conservation of water to maintain
a balance between the water requirement
of operations and community. This includes
optimising consumption, recycling as much
water as possible, and capturing and
recapturing to rejuvenate the water
sources. Here is just one of the many
water conservation initiatives undertaken
by us:

Incremental efforts to
water positivity AS Kandivali

REDUCTION
OF WASTE
GENERATED
The most effective way to reduce waste
is to eliminate it by design during the
production process. We reduce our
material consumption by leveraging
technology and innovation to adopt better
processes and improve efficiencies. At
Mahindra, we are working towards a
circular economy that focuses on
maximising the value of products and
materials across the entire lifecycle.
Instead of discarding products after usage,
we look for ways to reuse, repurpose or
recycle it. Here is just one of the many
waste management initiatives undertaken
by us:

43%

of water recycled
and reused in F23.
Water recharge
increased from
0.85 million m³
in F22 to

1.42

million m³ in F23.

Eco-friendly Aesthetics
and Quality
CoE, Materials Technology
Modern car customers demand
aesthetics, durability, quality, to go handin-hand with environmental sustainability.
To cater to these demands, our Centre of
Excellence for Materials Technology is
always seeking innovative solutions.
Some of these include:
l Low Solvent Grade Paint technology

AS Kandivali plant had 54% dependency
on borewell water, impacting groundwater
table due to restricted municipal water
supply in the bustling suburb of Mumbai.
To address this, a decentralised rainwater
harvesting model was adopted, collecting
run-off rainwater in holding arrangement,
filtering through first-stage aggregates,
sand and percolating into deep aquifer to
mitigate 1,00,000+ KL of borewell water.
AS Kandivali achieved water positivity by
navigating a decade-long path to water
conservation, reducing dependency on
borewell water, enhancing water security
for future growth, and conserving natural
resources.

with 3C1B high solid paint that meets
stringent paint specification and remain
'As Good As New' in the field even after
5 years of service. Use of high solid
paint results in Total VOC reduction of
2,272 g/litre per vehicle, 31% reduction
in material consumption and CO₂
reduction of 11 kg/Vehicle
l Increasing the material efficiency of

underbody coating through alternate
materials that are lighter in weight but
provide higher chipping resistance. This
resulted in Material consumption
reduction of almost 40%.
l Eco-friendly material and process

enhancement for Cathodic Electro
Deposition (CED) coating. This improves
corrosion performance while reducing
thickness that results in almost 20%
material consumption reduction.

63%

of M&M's waste
was diverted from
landfills in F23.

38

39

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

PROMOTION OF BIODIVERSITY
Biodiversity is at the heart of limiting emissions, sustaining life and thereby sustaining
business. The terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems of our planet act as natural carbon
sinks, with the biodiversity within them absorbing large amounts of greenhouse gas
emissions. The preservation of biodiversity is a crucial step in being Planet Positive.

In F23,
Mahindra Group
planted

2.21 million
trees across India.

Mahindra is committed to preserving biodiversity and had been taking up some major
initiatives to preserve biodiversity.
l Mahindra Hariyali is a key initiative

to increase the green cover in our
ecosystem. It is a part of the Group's
efforts to create a sustainable future
and to enrich the lives of the
communities in which it serves.

l As part of our biodiversity policy, we

collaborate with IUCN (International
Union for Conservation of Nature) and
IBBI (The India Business and Biodiversity
Initiative) and undertake biodiversity
assessments.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

PEOPLE
M&M has a
workforce of

61,874
permanent and
non-permanent
employees

91%

of the permanent
workforce is unionised.

The world is witnessing a transformative era where the business landscape is evolving
rapidly. At Mahindra, we believe that agility and responsiveness to change are crucial for
success. However, we also recognise that in this new world, our customers want more
than just a profit-oriented approach. They expect brands to care about issues that
matter and stand for something meaningful. That is why, at Mahindra, we are committed
to rise for a more equal world.
At the heart of this commitment are our
people - our employees, who are our
brand ambassadors. They bring vitality,
dynamism, energy and innovative ideas
to work every day. They are the driving
force behind our success, helping us
realise our aspirations in this new era.
To achieve our goals, we prioritise the
well-being and development of our
employees. We provide them with a sense
of purpose, invest in their professional
growth, and prioritise their health and
safety.
We celebrate innovation and out-of-thebox thinking and support well-reasoned
risk-taking. In doing so, we recognise that
our employees are also our partners in
our journey towards a more equal world.

THE MAHINDRA
EMPLOYEE VALUE
PROPOSITION
At Mahindra, we enable and sustain an
empowering work culture where our
employees learn and lead. Our employee
value proposition 'CAPable people – REAL
experience' underpins effective employee
strategies that enable transformation and
accelerate inclusive growth to drive the
momentum towards collaborative success.
E N A B L I N G T R A N S FO R M AT I O N

C

A

P

Challenge
Conventions

Bring
Alternative
inking to
the Workplace

Drive Positive
Change in the Lives
of Our Customers
& Communities

E N S U R I N G G ROW T H

R

E

AL

Recognition for
Outperformance

Empowering
Environment

Abundant Learning
Opportunities

40

41

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

A GREAT PLACE
TO WORK UNDER
MULTIPLE
DIMENSIONS

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Engagement level. ESG Performance
Index consists of intermediate targets
on our ambition to lead ESG globally.
We also have an Employee Stock Option
Program (ESOP) for senior executives
of the Company, which ensures the
alignment of interests between the
shareholders and employees.

TALENT
MANAGEMENT AND
LEADERSHIP
DEVELOPMENT

Mahindra's Making
Sustainability Personal
(MSP) initiative aims
to make sustainability
second nature for
employees so that
they contribute to a
sustainable future even
beyond the work. Under
this initiative, various
workshops, quizzes
and celebrations were
conducted throughout
the year, in which
more than

11,673

employees participated.

Mahindra & Mahindra's Automotive
& Farm Equipment Sector is a
Great Place to Work - Certified™
organisation and has been recognised
among India's Best Companies to
Work For 2022 - Rank 24. It excels on
the five dimensions of a High-Trust,
High-Performance Culture™ –
Credibility, Respect, Fairness,
Pride and Camaraderie.

PERFORMANCE
ORIENTED
REMUNERATION
We believe our compensation and
remuneration policy is well aligned to
encourage meritocracy as well as ESG
actions. Our compensation structures are
designed to shape employee's behaviour
to deliver in a high-performance culture.
All officers across the organisation have
part of their compensation apportioned
as variable pay (performance pay) payable
based on individual as well as business/
organisational goals. The percentage of
the variable component increases with
increasing hierarchy levels.
The parameters used include Return
on Equity (ROE), EPS growth, ESG
performance index and Employee

Our talent management process focuses
on building succession strength, creating
development journeys and learning
interventions to attract, retain and
develop top talent across the Group.
At the Group level, this process is
anchored through 'People Conversations'
to provide an overview of talent across
the Group and enable talent movements
across sectors basis individual strengths
and aspirations. Each sector anchors
talent management and talent
development through the respective
Sector Talent Councils.

FUNCTIONAL TALENT
ACCELERATORS
In our quest to build a healthy pipeline of
technical talent in Product Development
and associated areas, we set up the
Mahindra Research Valley (MRV), which
serves as a crucible for innovation and
technology for the Auto and Farm
Divisions.
Through MRV's unique concept of 'Tech
Ladder', we identify and cultivate
technical talent by working on
performance management, talent
management and capability building. The
Tech Ladder framework successfully
caters to more than 2,000 engineers,
covering multiple Centres of Excellence
(CoE) and project functions across
Automotive and Farm Divisions.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

MAHINDRA LEADERSHIP UNIVERSITY
In F22, we re-defined out operating model to become a Centre of Excellence for
leadership development. In F23, Mahindra Leadership University (MLU) delivered
on this mandate through multiple programs across a range of critical areas:

In F23,
the MLU conducted

31 programmes
that saw

764 learners
benefit over

20,752
learning-hours.

Mahindra Accelerated
Leadership Track (MALT)
We have partnered with Carnegie Mellon
University to develop an industry-leading
accelerator programme called MALT. This
track seeks to identify mid-career highpotential talent from within the diverse
Mahindra businesses annually. The first
batch of 33 associates graduated in
January 2023, and the second batch of
42 associates started their year-long
journey in January 2023.

Future Shapers
We kicked off the Mahindra Future
Shapers programme with the intent to
identify our next generation leadership
pipeline and strengthen their capabilities.
The programme is being delivered
through our long-term strategic tie-up
with Harvard University and leading
consulting firms. The first batch of Future
Shapers will graduate in Q1 of F24.

Development Programmes
The Future HR Leaders Programme that seeks to identify the next generation of HR CXOs,
successfully concluded in F23, while the Emerging Finance Leaders Programme (EFLP) was
kicked off in the last quarter of F23. The EFLP, delivered in partnership with a leading
leadership consulting firm and Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, will continue
to run over the course of F24.
For more information and highlights about MLU academies, please refer to the Management Discussion and Analysis
section of this Report.

42

43

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

DIGITAL LEARNING
INITIATIVES

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

DIVERSITY
AND INCLUSION

From F22 onwards, our focus has been to
bring world-class digital learning content
to our employees across all management
grades. Here are some ways in which we
are enabling rise through digital connect.

In a short period of
time, our e-learning
platforms have seen
approximately

90%

adoption rate and
more than

1 million
items of learning
consumed.

l Strategic partnerships with key content

partners such as Udemy, HMM Spark etc.
l EdCast by Cornerstone, a learning

experience platform for employees
across a number of our Group
companies.
l Digital Learning World: A new cutting-

edge learning management system that
offers diverse learning experience via
online macro learning, live virtual
trainings, and classroom training.

At Mahindra, we prioritise Diversity and
Inclusion (D&I) in our workplace and strive
to provide equal opportunities to all
individuals. Our policies ensure that no
discrimination occurs based on gender
or disability regarding employment,
promotion, termination or other related
issues.
To enforce our commitment to D&I, the
Group Diversity Council has implemented
a metrics-driven scorecard with a strong
emphasis on gender diversity. We also
grant flexibility to our Group Companies
regarding other aspects of D&I.

l Rise@Work, an intranet portal to help

employees connect, collaborate and
co-create. This portal injects the spirit
of Rise through digital disruption.
l ChatBot is a tool backed by AI that

With a wellstructured
framework,
we ensure
harmonious
implementation
of policies
through a
central HR
Council.

conducts a conversation with employees
and presents ready solutions to their
queries.

MAHINDRA SKILL
EXCELLENCE
The Mahindra Skill Excellence is an
internal platform that aims at holistic skill
enhancement programme for the shop
floor associates. Over the years it has
matured and in the current year 2,967
associates have participated from across
all its manufacturing units.

As part of our Equal Opportunity Policy,
we equip our new recruits with the
necessary training to perform their job
functions efficiently. Our training
programmes include the 'Speak Up'
campaign for awareness about Prevention
of Sexual Harassment (POSH) and
refresher modules provided by our Ethics
Counsellors.

ENABLING POLICIES
Our HR policies have been reviewed,
revised and framed keeping employees
at the core:
Employee Benefits include professional
and medical allowance, education
assistance, mobile reimbursement,
option of sabbatical etc.
Work Conditions cover flexible working
hours policy, work from home
arrangements and part time work
options etc.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Family Benefits We have introduced
policies to support better family life.
These policies include women travel
safety policy, maternity support policy,
childcare facilities or contributions
includes Company-provided creche or
reimbursement for the facility, breastfeeding/lactation facilities or benefits,
and paid parental leave, amongst others.

FOCUSSED HIRING
We continue to attract, retain and develop
diverse talent through initiatives such as
Focused Hiring where we focus on hiring
and supporting women and Persons with
Disability through specialised hiring
consultants. We also want to improve
gender diversity in areas of technology
and business operations, which is also
going to be a thrust area for the Company.

TALENT MANAGEMENT
We are committed to advancing the
career development of women at all
levels. We provide them with the chance
to acquire new skills and interact with
senior leaders through various initiatives.
In F22, we launched the Women
Mentoring programme for the managerial
band which provides career guidance and
coaching from senior leaders, enabling
women to excel in their career paths.
Similarly, we introduced Generation
Valuable, a unique mentorship program
under Valuable 500, for people with
disabilities to build the future executive
leadership and driving disability inclusion
through systematic change.

TRANSFORMATIONAL
WORK CULTURE
The Transformational Work Culture
initiative aims to create an engaged
workforce with an innovative, productive
and a competitive shop-floor ecosystem.
Some of the initiatives towards the same
include creating a culture of self-managed
teams; 'Nayi soch - Naya dristikon', a
mindset transformation programme
named for cell members and union leaders;
Rise award for associates and Employee of
the year program for associates.

INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
The industrial relations scenario continued
to be largely positive across all the
manufacturing locations. Long-term wage
and bonus settlements were closed
amicably for all the plants. The sustained
efforts towards building a transformational
work culture resulted in zero production
loss in F23.

HEALTH & SAFETY
At Mahindra, we prioritise employee
safety by implementing the highest
safety standards and upgrading our
rigorous procedures in line with
technological advancements and best
practices.
l ‘Employee Health Index' is maintained

at an individual level, and this has been
a useful tool in identifying employees
who require focused counselling and
monitoring.
l The 'Wellness App' is available to

employees for quick access to critical
health-related information.
l Various awareness sessions on driving

employees towards a healthy and
better lifestyle, Post Covid Care,
Emotional Wellbeing, Mindfulness, etc.
were touched upon by experts during
the exclusive sessions for employees
and their family members.

A dedicated
Central Safety
Council
comprising
representatives
from all sectors
works together
to brainstorm
new ideas,
mobilise
necessary
resources, and
develop new
practices to
enhance safety
across the Group.

44

45

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

SOCIAL

in F23, we invested

INR 92.28
crore

in various social projects

At Mahindra, we understand that creating value goes beyond the vehicles we make and
the services we provide. We are committed to undertaking comprehensive, well-planned,
and long-term social interventions that positively impact vulnerable and marginalised
communities and the environment. Our core purpose, "Only when we enable others
to rise, will we rise," drives our approach to CSR. We strive to move beyond mere
philanthropy and invest in impactful social programmes that actively promote betterment.
Over the last 75 years, we have
implemented various social initiatives
that have had a positive impact on girls
and women as well as the environment
through massive tree plantation. By
investing in such initiatives, we believe
that we can achieve the highest return
on our social investment and rise for a
more equal world.

PROJECT
NANHI KALI
Our flagship CSR initiative, Project Nanhi
Kali, has empowered underprivileged girls
across India by supporting their education.

As a testament to our commitment, in F23
we invested INR 92.28 crore in various
social projects that have brought about
positive change in the communities. We
will continue to work towards creating a
better and more sustainable future for all.

Since 1996,
Project Nanhi Kali
has empowered over

5,50,000

underprivileged girls
across

15 states
in India

KEY MATERIALITY
ISSUES
Our key material issue in social capital is
CSR management, where we focus on
formulating community-centric policies
and implementing a sustainable strategy
that addresses major societal issues
through our projects across the nation.
In line with this approach, we have
undertaken various initiatives aimed at
enhancing social capital.

Here's how Project Nanhi Kali is making a
difference:
l The project provides comprehensive

support to girls in government schools
from Classes 1-10, including daily afterschool remedial classes and access to
an AI-powered, personalised, adaptive
learning software via digital tablets.
l Every girl receives a material kit

annually consisting of essential school
supplies and feminine hygiene material.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

l A professionally designed sports

curriculum is integrated to promote
holistic development.
l The project creates girl-friendly

ecosystems in underserved communities
across rural, tribal, and urban poor
regions of India through regular
engagements with parents and
community stakeholders.
Further, the project also introduced Nanhi
Kali Life Skills and Digital Skills training
programmes for teenage girls.

an employability skill learning initiative,
into a 100% women beneficiary
programme from F23 onwards.
The Mahindra Pride Classrooms provides
40 to 120 hours training modules with
the help of expert trainers to final year
students studying in Government
Colleges, ITIs and Polytechnic Institutes.
The Modules range from English speaking
and life skills, to interview preparedness
and digital literacy which are critical skills
required to enhance their employability.
The participants are provided with
workbooks and other study material
which help them blend theory with
practice. Assessments are a key part of
the programme design and successful
candidates are provided with certification
at the end of the course.

During the year, M&M
supported training of

1,03,699
women in this
programme.

In F23, Project Nanhi Kali supported the
education of 1,86,041 girls across 9
states of India through the after-school
programme. Of these, Mahindra &
Mahindra continued to support 52,658
girls (which includes an additional
14,562 girls enrolled in F23). The
Mahindra Group supported 85,778 girls.
Additionally, 31,908 girls were supported
through the Nanhi Kali Life Skills and
Digital Skills training programmes across
2 states. Of these, Mahindra & Mahindra
supported 15,000 girls, while the
Mahindra Group supported 25,600 girls.
A total of 1,11,378 girls were supported
through Project Nanhi Kali by the
Mahindra Group in F23.

MAHINDRA PRIDE
CLASSROOMS (MPC)
To support the nation's priority of
increasing women's labour force
participation in the formal economy,
Mahindra Group transformed its flagship
Mahindra Pride Classrooms programme -

During the year, 1,66,666 women were
trained in this programme across 19
states in India, out of which 1,03,699
women were trained through support
provided by Mahindra & Mahindra. In
addition, 1,256 men were also part of the
programme, cumulating the total number
of beneficiaries supported by Mahindra
Group to 1,67,922. Since inception, this
intervention has trained 7,28, 808 youth.

46

47

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

PROJECT
HARIYALI

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

REGENERATIVE
AGRICULTURE

The Project is the Group's flagship
afforestation initiative that started in
2007 to increase the green cover and
arrest the rising ecological imbalance.
It started with a target of planting a
million trees every year across all
Mahindra locations.

To date,

22.86
million

trees have been
planted through
Mahindra Hariyali, of
which 14.90 million
trees have been
planted in Araku
which supports the
livelihood of over
26,000 tribal farmer
families.

In 2010, the project was extended to
Araku Valley near Visakhapatnam, Andhra
Pradesh to create a functional forest for
the tribal community by planting 19
varieties of fruit, forest, and shade trees.
Project Hariyali was further extended to
Northern India in Solan in Himachal
Pradesh, Tarn Taran and Moga in Punjab
and Shravasti in Uttar Pradesh in the year
2022.
In F23, the Mahindra Group planted 2.21
million trees, while Mahindra & Mahindra
contributed towards plantation of 1.59
million trees. Of these, 1.31 million trees
were planted in the Araku Valley, which
besides greening the environment also
provides livelihood support to 3,275
tribal farmer families. The farmers have
been trained in global organic farming
protocols which rejuvenate the soil,
increase water retention and soil organic
carbon.

The main objective of the programme is to
enable women farmers to use regenerative
agriculture as a technique to transform
the soil on their land, increase productivity
and earn profits throughout the year, in
addition to ensuring food and nutrition
security for their families. Through this
project, 45,529 women farmers from
Moga, Tarn Taran (Punjab), Shravasti (UP)
and Wardha (Maharashtra) were provided
knowledge in regenerative organic
farming practices. This Initiative helped
the women farmers reduce agriculture
input costs and increase income from sale
of crops.

PRERNA

Photo courtesy: Naandi Foundation

As a part of empowering women,
Mahindra & Mahindra focuses on women
farmers with an objective of providing
exposure to good agricultural and farm
mechanisation practices to augment
their farm-based livelihood. The flagship
intervention PRERNA is an integral
part of various projects which includes
training and advisory services like soil
health, access to gender friendly
farm equipment, linkages to Government.
welfare support initiatives, resource
efficient agriculture methodologies for
enhancing crop productivity. 11,111
women across 6 states were supported
under this initiative in F23.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

WATER
CONSERVATION

EMPLOYEE
VOLUNTEERING

Water conservation is crucial for
sustainable development in communities,
especially in areas where water is scarce.
We have undertaken various water
conservation projects across diverse
geographies to prevent soil erosion,
improve soil health, and increase water
tables through water structure
enhancement and creation. These
initiatives have led to better water
availability, enhanced green cover,
increased crop productivity, and
sustainable livelihoods, resulting in
holistic community development

In total,

55,873

Mahindra Group
employees invested

4,53,884.5

person-hours through
ESOPs & MySeva
platforms, with

10,587

Mahindra & Mahindra
employees contributing
to the effort.

Two notable projects undertaken by us,
in collaboration with NABARD, are the
Watershed Development Fund (WDF)
and Climate Change Adaptation (CCA)
projects. They have been carried out in
Hatta (Madhya Pradesh) and Igatpuri
(Maharashtra), covering around 34
villages. In F23, these projects
supported more than 7,939 farmers
through various interventions such as
soil and water conservation work, crop
diversification measures, livelihood
training and support, and drudgery
reduction initiatives. These interventions
contributed to the integrated
development of rural catchment areas.
Apart from the above projects, other
geographies were identified for deploying
region-specific water management
interventions covering five states,
cumulatively resulting in 158 water
harvesting structures and 4,978 ha land
treated for soil and water conservation
and impacting 19,446+ farmers and their
families.

Mahindra Group's employee volunteering
platforms, ESOPs and MySeva, have
enabled employees to contribute their
personal time towards various social
causes and create large-scale impact in
the communities.
l The Group employees invested 1,46,721

person-hours through individual acts of
social responsibility, which were
reported on the MySeva Platform.
l Additionally, 3,07,163.50 person-hours

were contributed through the
Company's organised volunteering
programme, Employee Social Options
(ESOPs).

48

ANNUAL REPORT
2022-23
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

51

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

RISE TO
CREATE VALUE

RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY

RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD

CORPORATE
INFORMATION

STATUTORY
REPORTS

FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Chairman Emeritus
(upto 12 April, 2023)

Mr. Keshub Mahindra

BOARD OF
DIRECTORS

COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD

Chairman

Audit
Committee

Stakeholders
Relationship
Committee

Governance, Nomination
and Remuneration
Committee

Dr. Anish Shah

Mr. T. N. Manoharan Chairman

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Chairman

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Chairman

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Managing Director and
Chief Executive O cer

Ms. Shikha Sharma

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Ms. Shikha Sharma

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

Corporate
Social Responsibility
Committee

Risk
Management
Committee

Strategic
Investment
Committee

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai Chairperson

Mr. T. N. Manoharan Chairman

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Chairman

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

Executive Director and
CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Lead Independent Director

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Dr. Anish Shah

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Independent Director

Dr. Anish Shah

Ms. Shikha Sharma

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

Ms. Shikha Sharma

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Independent Director

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Independent Director

Key Managerial
Personnel

Mr. Manoj Bhat

President & Group Chief Financial O cer

Mr. Narayan Shankar

Company Secretary

Ms. Shikha Sharma

Independent Director

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

Independent Director

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
Independent Director

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

(Nominee of Life Insurance
Corporation of India)

Mr. CP Gurnani

Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director

Bankers

Auditors

Advocates

Axis Bank Limited
Bank of America N.A.
Bank of Baroda
Bank of India
Canara Bank
Central Bank of India
HDFC Bank Limited
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
State Bank of India
Union Bank of India

B S R & Co. LLP
14th Floor,
Central B Wing and
North C Wing,
Nesco IT Park 4,
Nesco Center,
Western Express Highway,
Goregaon (East),
Mumbai - 400 063,
India.

Khaitan & Co.
One World Centre,
Tower 1,
10th and 13th Floor,
841, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Mumbai - 400 013,
India.

Registered
O ce

Gateway Building,
Apollo Bunder, Mumbai - 400 001, India.

53

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

54

BOARD’S REPORT

Dear Shareholders
Your Directors present their Report together with the
audited financial statements of your Company for the year
ended 31st March, 2023.

A. FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

(Rs. in crores)

Standalone
Particulars

2023

Consolidated
2023

2022

Revenue from Operations............

84,960.26

57,786.94 1,21,268.55

2022

90,170.57

Other Income........................................

2,545.17

2,053.75

1,206.49

934.51

Profit before Depreciation,
Finance Costs, Exceptional
items, Share of profit of
associates and joint ventures
and Taxation..........................................

12,987.56

9,081.22

21,491.78

15,617.36

Less: Depreciation, Amortisation
and Impairment
Expenses ....................................

3,154.46

2,498.39

4,356.81

3,507.50

Profit before Finance Costs,
Exceptional items, Share of
profit of associates and joint
ventures and Taxation....................

9,833.10

6,582.83

17,134.97

12,109.86

Less: Finance Costs...........................

272.78

226.18

5,829.70

5,018.05

Profit Before Exceptional Items,
Share of profit of associates
and joint ventures and
Taxation.....................................................

9,560.32

6,356.65

11,305.27

7,091.81

Add: Share of profit of
associates and joint ventures...

–

–

1,505.44

1,855.79

Profit Before Exceptional Items
and Taxation..................................................

9,560.32

6,356.65

12,810.71

8,947.60

Add: Exceptional items...................

(1,429.54)

(208.67)

1,249.52

414.17

Profit before Taxation.....................

8,130.78

6,147.98

14,060.23

9,361.77

Less: Tax Expense..............................

1,582.14

1,278.10

2,685.75

2,108.76

Profit for the year.............................

6,548.64

4,869.88

11,374.48

7,253.01

Profit / (Loss) for the year
attributable to:
- Owners of the company............

6,548.64

4,869.88

10,281.50

6,577.32

- Non-controlling interests...........

–

–

1,092.98

675.69

Balance of profit for earlier
years............................................................

32,450.64

29,463.69

39,174.21

33,667.96

Profits available for
appropriation.........................................

38,999.28

34,333.57

49,455.71

40,245.28

Less: Dividend paid on Equity
Shares .......................................................

1,435.89

1,087.79

1,284.77

979.17

Add: Due to Scheme of
Arrangement..........................................

–

(847.27)

–

–

Add: Other adjustments to
Retained earnings$............................

(85.36)

52.13

16.67

(91.90)

Balance carried forward................

37,478.03

32,450.64

48,187.61

39,174.21

$ For details refer to ‘Statement of Changes in Equity’ in the Standalone Financial Statements
and ‘Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity’ in the Consolidated Financial Statements
respectively forming part of the Annual Report.

The Financial Year 2023 was a year of uncertainty, recovery
and economic resilience for India. Even as India looked beyond
the pandemic, elevated uncertainty due to geopolitical tensions
and a war in Ukraine set the tone even before the fiscal year
started. The war resulted in higher global supply-chain-related
disruptions and fuelled global inflationary forces, which seeped
into the domestic consumption basket. Oil breached USD 120 /
barrel of crude oil mark, and industrial metal prices soared in
the first quarter.
Higher inflation forced major central banks to firefight inflation
with an ultra-hawkish policy stance. While the faster-than-normal
pace of monetary policy tightening resulted in the peaking of
inflationary forces, it also raised headwinds to global growth.
A stronger dollar resulting from US Federal Reserve’s policy
tightening and higher commodity prices accentuated external
difficulties for emerging economies including India. The RBI
also hiked rates aggressively to combat domestic inflationary
pressures in line with the global monetary policy cycle.
Global growth lost momentum as monetary policy actions
tightened financial conditions and consumer confidence
weakened with the rising cost of livelihood. Inflation remained
elevated and persistent across countries as they grappled
with food and energy price shocks and shortages. Yet, India’s
economic resilience stands out with the first advance estimates
(FAE) released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), placing
India’s real gross domestic product (GDP) growth at 7%
year-on-year (y-o-y) for FY23, driven by private consumption
and investment.
The Profit for the year before Depreciation, Finance Costs,
Exceptional items and Taxation recorded an increase of
43.01% at Rs. 12,987.56 crores as against Rs. 9,081.22 crores
in the previous year. Profit after tax increased by 34.47%
at Rs. 6,548.64 crores as against Rs. 4,869.88 crores in the
previous year.
Your Company continues with its rigorous cost restructuring
exercises and efficiency improvements which have resulted
in significant savings through continued focus on cost
controls, process efficiencies and product innovations that
exceed customer expectations in all areas thereby enabling
the Company to maintain profitable growth in the current
economic scenario.

55

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Earnings Per Share (EPS)
The Standalone basic EPS of the Company stood at Rs. 54.70
for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023 as against
Rs. 40.73 for the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2022 and
Diluted EPS stood at Rs. 54.49 as against Rs. 40.58 in the
previous year.
Details of Material Changes from the end of the Financial
Year till the date of this Report
No material changes and commitments have occurred after the
closure of the Financial Year 2022-23 till the date of this Report,
which would affect the financial position of your Company.

Performance Review
 Automotive Sector

Your Company’s Automotive Sector posted total sales of
6,98,456 vehicles (6,39,374 Passenger vehicles, commercial
vehicles and 59,082 three-wheelers) as against a total of
4,65,601 vehicles (4,35,086 four-wheelers and 30,515 threewheelers) in the previous year, registering a growth of 50%.
In the domestic market, your Company sold a total of 6,66,349
vehicles as compared to 4,33,091 vehicles in the previous
year, resulting in a growth of 53.9%.
In the Passenger Vehicle (PV) segment, your Company sold
3,59,253 vehicles [including 3,56,961 Utility Vehicles (UVs),
2,078 Vans and 214 Cars] as compared to the previous year’s
volume of 2,25,895 vehicles [including 2,23,682 Utility Vehicles
(UVs), 2,154 Vans and 59 Cars] registering a growth of 59%.
In the Commercial Vehicle (CV) segment, your Company sold
2,48,576 vehicles [including 40,419 vehicles <2T GVW, 1,98,121
vehicles between 2-3.5T GVW, 1,959 Light Commercial Vehicles
(LCVs) in the LCV > 3.5T segment, 1,657 vehicles in the 7.516.2T GVW segment, 4,742 Heavy Commercial Vehicles (HCVs)
and 1,678 LCV Passenger] registering a growth of 40.3% over
the previous year’s volume of 1,77,117 vehicles [including
32,039 vehicles < 2T GVW, 1,38,643 vehicles between 2-3.5T
GVW, 1,891 Light Commercial Vehicles (LCVs) in the LCV > 3.5T
segment, 1,135 vehicles in the 7.5-16.2T GVW segment and
3,409 Heavy Commercial Vehicles (HCVs)].
In the three-wheeler segment, your Company sold
58,520 three-wheelers, registering a growth of 94.6% over
the previous year’s volume of 30,079 three-wheelers.
For the year under review, the Indian automotive industry
(except 2W) grew by 32%, with the PV industry growth of

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

26.7% and CV industry growth of 34.3%. The UV segment
showed growth of 34.5%. Within the CV industry, the LCV
goods <3.5T segment grew by 23.9% while the Medium and
Heavy Commercial Vehicles (MHCV) Segment grew by 40.1%.
Your Company’s UV volumes stood at 3,56,961 units, a growth
of 59.6%. The UV market share for your Company stood at
17.8%. For the year under review, the Scorpio-N launched in
June 2022, performed well in the UV segment with a volume
of 35,112 units for the Financial Year 2023. It garnered 1 lakh
bookings within 30 minutes of opening of booking window.
XUV700, Thar, Scorpio, XUV300 and Bolero continued to be
strong brands for your Company in the UV segment.
In the LCV<3.5T segment, your Company retained its No. 1
position with 45.5% market share. Your Company sold a total
of 2,38,540 vehicles in this segment. Your Company has a
market share of 59.8% in the LCV 2-3.5T segment, which is
the Pickup segment.
In the MHCV Segment, your Company sold 6,399 trucks as
against 4,544 trucks in the previous year. This is a growth of
40.8%. Your Company’s market share in the MHCV segment
stands at 2%.
Your Company is the pioneer for Electric Vehicles (EVs) in India,
and for the year under review, sold 46,109 EVs as against
17,006 EVs in the previous year.
During the year under review, your Company posted an export
volume of 32,107 vehicles as against the previous year’s
exports of 32,510 vehicles representing a de-growth of 1.2%.
The sales of spare parts for the year stood at Rs. 3,824.26 crores
(including exports of Rs. 396.51 crores) as compared to
Rs. 2,859.2 crores (including exports of Rs. 235.2 crores) in
the previous year, registering a growth of 33.8%.
 Farm Equipment Sector

Your Company’s Farm Equipment Sector recorded total sales
of 4,07,545 tractors (domestic + export) as against 3,54,698
tractors sold in the previous year. These figures for the current
year sales and previous year sales include tractors sold under
the Trakstar brand, which is the third brand of your Company
under the subsidiary Gromax Agri Equipment Limited.
For the year under review, the tractor industry in India
recorded sales of 9,45,311 tractors, a growth of 12.2%.
Tractor Industry recorded growth in Financial Year 2023 on
account of record crop output, Government support (MSP),
increase in wages and shift of Navratri in Q4 F23.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

In the domestic market, your Company sold 3,89,531 tractors,
as compared to 3,37,052 tractors in the previous year (these
figures for the current year sales and previous year sales
include tractors sold by Gromax Agri Equipment Limited),
recording a growth of 15.6%. It is the highest ever volume
sold by your Company. With market share at 41.2%, a gain of
1.2% over previous year, the Company continues to be the
market leader for the 40th consecutive year. Your Company’s
performance was supported by good performance of all
products in the portfolio.
Your Company continues to focus on growing the farm
mechanisation space, by offering affordable mechanisation
solutions. The portfolio comprises of Rotavators, Cultivators,
Harvesters, Rice transplanters, Balers and Sprayers.
For the year under review, your Company exported
18,014 tractors which is a growth of 2.1% over the
previous year.
Net Sales of Spare parts for the Financial Year 2023 stood
at Rs. 1,070.5 crores (including exports of Rs. 97.4 crores) as
compared to Rs. 917 crores (including exports of Rs. 81 crores)
in the previous Financial Year 2022, registering a growth
of 16.7%.
Please refer to the paragraph on Operating Results
in the Management Discussion & Analysis section for
detailed analysis.

Other Businesses
Powerol
Under the Powerol brand, your Company has been a leader in
providing power back-up solutions to the telecom industry for
more than 15+ years of operation. Your Company continues
to consolidate its presence in the tele-infra management
space. Alongside the Telecom, Powerol has been increasing
the Retail market share, especially with the extension in HkVA
range. With the introduction of CPCB 4+ for gensets, Powerol
is gearing up for the transition.
Powerol stands at No. 2 brand by volume in the overall Diesel
Genset power back-up segment.
Powerol’s move towards sustainability has led to the
introduction of the Gas Powered gensets with introduction
of 5 nodes between 15 kVA to 315 kVA. They offer lower
operating costs and low emissions complying to the new
emission norms. During the year, Powerol has also initiated EV
Charger business for Home Charger Installations for the EV
customers of the Company.

56

 Construction Equipment
For the year under review, your Company (under the Mahindra
EarthMaster brand) sold 989 Backhoe Loaders (BHLs), a
35.7% increase as against 729 sold in the Financial Year
2021-2022. Your Company also has a presence in the road
construction equipment business through motor graders
(under the Mahindra RoadMaster brand).
For the year under review, your Company sold 188 motor
graders, a 60.7% increase as against 117 sold in the Financial
Year 2021-2022. Your Company also has a presence in the
Sugar Cane Haulage market (under the Mahindra HaulMaster
brand) in the export market. For the year under review, your
Company sold 247 Haulage Tractors, a 135.2% increase as
against 105 sold in the Financial Year 2021-2022. The BHL
industry grew by 28% and the motor grader industry grew
by 42% due to increased focus from the Government of India
on infrastructure.
 Two-Wheeler Business
In line with the strategy for the two-wheeler business, your
Company through its subsidiary, Classic Legends Private
Limited (“CLPL”) had reintroduced the iconic brand ‘Jawa’ to
the Indian market in the Financial Year 2019, with the launch
of new range of JAWA motorcycles - Jawa and Jawa Forty-Two
and strengthened its portfolio by adding Yezdi in the Financial
Year 2021-22. During Financial Year 2022-23, 42 Bobber was
introduced to the Indian market and in addition, CLPL forayed
into the international market by introducing iconic British
brand BSA in UK and European market.

Current Year’s review
During the period 1st April, 2023 to 25th May, 2023, 1,08,013
vehicles were produced as against 89,041 vehicles and
1,03,410 vehicles were dispatched as against 74,605
vehicles dispatched during the corresponding period in the
last year. During the same period 62,235 tractors were
produced and 60,435 tractors dispatched as against 61,268
tractors produced and 60,977 tractors dispatched during the
corresponding period in the previous year.
The high-interest rate environment has exposed the underlying
fault lines of the global economy and the financial system,
which has now widened further due to multiple shocks
ranging from the pandemic and continuing war in Ukraine.
With instances of bank runs amid a loss of confidence and
liquidity woes in the advanced economies of the US and
Europe, growth and liquidity concerns are back to the fore as
central banks continue their pursuit of a ‘soft landing’.

57

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Back home, the sustained focus on capital and infrastructure
spending in the Union Budget 2023-24 along with continuing
fiscal consolidation and strong credit growth creates space
for private investment and supports domestic economic
activity. However, there are early forecasts of a probable
El Nino and external demand is likely to be dented by
a slowdown in global activity. Taking all these factors
into consideration, the RBI projects real GDP growth for
2023-24 at 6.4%.

Committee increased the policy repo rate by 250 bps during
May 2022-February 2023 taking the policy Repo rate to
6.5%. RBI also sucked out liquidity from the system with the
system liquidity falling from Rs. 7.8 lakh crore in April, 2022
to Rs. 1.4 lakh crores in March, 2023. Money market rates and
short-term bond yields hardened in tandem with policy rate
increases and tightness in liquidity, while long term bond yields
were largely range-bound. CPI has since eased substantially
and is well within RBI’s medium-term 4+/- 2% target.

Finance

The Indian rupee (INR) depreciated vis-à-vis the US dollar
buffeted by global spillovers. The INR touched an all-time low
of 83.2 during October, 2022 but has recovered since then
on a depreciating US dollar and net inflows through foreign
portfolio investments. India’s foreign exchange reserves were
placed at US$ 578.4 billion as on 31st March, 2023.

Financial Year 2022-23 saw the global outlook deteriorating
markedly as inflation across the world surged to levels
not seen for generations and the rising cost of living hit
consumer confidence. As soaring food and energy prices
threatened to trigger a global crisis, central banks around
the world responded by aggressive monetary tightening and
increased interest rates in the fastest and most synchronized
tightening cycles on record. Due to the aggressive interest
rate hikes, easing of global supply chain bottlenecks and
lower commodity prices, global headline inflation is set to
fall from 8.7% in 2022 to 7.0% in 2023 (IMF estimates),
however inflation is expected to remain well above central
bank target levels till 2025 in most countries.
Record high interest rates and a resurgence of COVID-19 in
China weighed on global growth during the financial year.
Tentative signs in 2023 show that the world economy could
achieve a soft landing. As per International Monetary Fund
(“IMF”), global growth is expected to fall from 3.4% in 2022
to 2.8% in 2023 with advanced economies expecting to see
an especially pronounced growth slowdown, from 2.7% in
2022 to 1.3% in 2023. Side-effects from the fast rise in
policy rates in the form of banking turmoil in the US and
Europe and the accompanying financial stability concerns
weigh on the outlook going forward.
In the currency markets, the US dollar hit a two-decade high with
the dollar index touching 112 in September 2022. The US dollar
has since weakened against most currencies. Volatility impacted
emerging market currencies in an environment of risk aversion,
safe haven demand and correction in global equity markets.
In contrast, domestic financial markets evolved in an orderly
manner. India’s economic activity exhibited resilience with
GDP growth for FY 2022-23 pegged at 7%, driven by private
consumption and investment. Consumer price index inflation
(CPI) persisted at elevated levels during the year, impacted
by a series of adverse supply shocks and the continuing
pass-through of high input costs. The RBI Monetary Policy

Amidst the aforesaid backdrop, the Bankers continue to rate
your Company as a prime customer and extend facilities /
services at prime rates. Your Company follows a prudent
financial policy and aims not to exceed an optimum financial
gearing at any time. The Company’s gross Debt to Equity
Ratio is 0.11 as at 31st March, 2023. Further, your Company
continued to focus on managing cash efficiently and ensured
that it had adequate liquidity and back up lines of credit.
During the year, your Company repaid total borrowings of
Rs. 1,861.43 crores whilst maintaining an optimum liquidity
level of Rs. 14,410 crores as at 31st March, 2023.
Further, your Company has been rated by CRISIL Ratings Limited
(“CRISIL”), ICRA Limited (“ICRA”), India Ratings and Research
Private Limited (“India Ratings”) and CARE Ratings Limited
(“CARE”) for its Banking facilities. All have re-affirmed the
highest credit rating for your Company’s Short-Term facilities.
For Long Term facilities and Non-Convertible Debentures,
CRISIL, ICRA, CARE and India Ratings have re-affirmed their
credit ratings of CRISIL AAA/Stable, [ICRA]AAA (stable), CARE
AAA; Stable, and IND AAA/Stable for the respective facilities
rated by them. With the above rating affirmations, your
Company continues to enjoy the highest level of rating from
all major rating agencies at the same time.
The AAA ratings indicate highest degree of safety regarding
timely servicing of financial obligations and is also a vote
of confidence reposed in your Company’s Management by
the rating agencies. It is an acknowledgement of the strong
credit profile of your Company over the years, resilience in
earnings despite cyclical upturns / downturns, robust financial
flexibility arising from the significant market value of its
holdings and prudent management.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Your Company is a “Large Corporate” as per the criteria
under Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”)
Operational Circular No. SEBI/HO/DDHS/P/CIR/2021/613
dated 10th August, 2021, as amended from time to time.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the said
Circular and has made requisite disclosures in this regard.

Redemption of Non-Convertible Debentures
Subsequent to the year end, your Company has redeemed
the following Unsecured Listed, Rated Redeemable NonConvertible Debentures (“NCDs”) issued on private placement
basis on the due dates, as per the respective terms of issue:
Particulars of
NCDs

ISIN

Amount
(in Rs.)

Issue date

Date of
Redemption

M&M 6.65% 10,000 Debentures
of Rs. 10,00,000
each

INE101A08096

1,000
crores

20th April, 2020

20th April, 2023

M&M 6.78% 10,000 Debentures
of Rs. 10,00,000
each

INE101A08104

1,000
crores

24th April, 2020

24th April, 2023

Further, your Company has on 4th May, 2023 received Notices
from the Holders of M&M 6.19% NCDs (500 Debentures
of Rs. 10,00,000 each aggregating Rs. 500 crores)
[ISIN: INE101A08112] exercising Put Option to redeem the
aforesaid Debentures as per the terms and conditions of
the issue. The Company whilst acknowledging the receipt of
Put Option Notices from all the Debenture Holders informed
them that the aforesaid Debentures would be redeemed
on 8th June, 2023 (being Put Option date) prior to Maturity
along with accrued Interest.

Investor Relations (IR)
Your Company always believes in leading from the front with
emerging best practices in IR and building a relationship of
mutual understanding with domestic and foreign investors/
analysts. In the Financial Year 2023, your Company
increased its interaction with investors through video and
audio conference calls. The top management, including
the Managing Director & CEO, Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) and Group CFO, spent significant
time to interact with investors to communicate the strategic
direction of the business, capital allocation policy and various
ESG activities. All the investor connect events including four
quarterly earnings calls / analyst meets and product launch
events conducted during the year were also well attended
by investors and analysts.
During the year, your Company interacted with more than
950 Indian and overseas investors and analysts (excluding

58

quarterly earnings calls and specific event related calls).
Your Company ensures that critical information about the
Company is available to all the investors by uploading all
such information on the Company’s website.
Please refer to the section on “Analyst / Institutional
Investors Presentation” in the Corporate Governance section
for details of number of Investor / Analyst Interactions held
during the year.

Dividend
As per the Dividend Distribution Policy, dividend payout would
have to be determined based on available financial resources,
investment requirements and taking into account optimal
shareholder return. Within these parameters, the Company
would endeavour to maintain a total dividend pay-out ratio in
the range of 20% to 35% of the annual standalone Profits
after Tax (PAT) of the Company.
Your Directors, considering the good performance and a
strong cash flow, decided to recommend a Dividend of
Rs. 16.25 (325%) per Ordinary (Equity) Share of the face
value of Rs. 5 each out of the Profits for the financial year
ended 31st March, 2023.
The equity dividend outgo for the Financial Year 2022-23
would absorb a sum of Rs. 2,020.73 crores resulting in a
payout of 25.33% of the standalone net profit of the
Company for the Financial Year 2022-23 [as against
Rs. 1,435.89 crores comprising the dividend of Rs. 11.55 per
Ordinary (Equity) Share of the face value of Rs. 5 each
for the previous year]. Dividend will be payable subject to
approval of members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting
and deduction of tax at source to those Shareholders whose
names appear in the Register of Members as on the Book
Closure Date. The Board of your Company decided not to
transfer any amount to the General Reserve for the year
under review.

Dividend Distribution Policy
The Dividend Distribution Policy containing the requirements
mentioned in Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing
Regulations”) is attached as Annexure I and forms part of
this Annual Report.
The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company is also
uploaded on the Company’s website at the following Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments.

59

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

B. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company,
its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act, 2013 and applicable
Indian Accounting Standards along with all relevant
documents and the Auditors’ Report form part of this Annual
Report. The Consolidated Financial Statements presented by
the Company include the ﬁnancial results of its subsidiary
companies, associates and joint ventures.
The Consolidated Revenue from operations is Rs. 1,21,269 crores
in the current year as compared to Rs. 90,171 crores in the
previous year, registering an increase of 34.5%.
The consolidated proﬁt before exceptional items, share of
profit of associates and joint ventures and tax for the year is
Rs. 11,305 crores as against Rs. 7,092 crores in the previous
year, registering an increase of 59.4%. The consolidated proﬁt
after tax after non-controlling interest and exceptional items
for the year is Rs. 10,282 crores as against Rs. 6,577 crores
in the previous year, registering an increase of 56.3%.
The Financial Statements as stated above are also available
on the website of the Company and can be accessed at
the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY23/
AnnualReport.zip.

Subsidiary, Joint Venture and Associate
Companies
The Mahindra Group Companies continue to contribute to
the overall growth in revenues and overall performance of
your Company.
Tech Mahindra Limited, Flagship Company in the IT
Sector, reported a consolidated operating revenue of
Rs. 53,290 crores in the current year as compared to
Rs. 44,646 crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of 19.4%. Its consolidated profit after tax after
non-controlling interests is Rs. 4,831 crores as compared to
Rs. 5,566 crores in the previous year, registering a decrease
of 13.2%.
The Group’s finance company, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited, a listed subsidiary of the Company (Mahindra
Finance), reported a consolidated operating revenue of
Rs. 12,700 crores during the current year as compared
to Rs. 11,318 crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of 12.2%. The consolidated profit after tax after
non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. 2,072 crores as
compared to Rs. 1,137 crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of 82.2%.

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, the listed subsidiary
in the business of real estate and infrastructure, reported
a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. 607 crores as
compared to Rs. 394 crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of 54.1%. The consolidated profit after tax after
non-controlling interest for the year is Rs. 101 crores as
compared to Rs. 154 crores in the previous year, registering
a decrease of 34.4%.
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited, the listed
subsidiary in the business of timeshare, registered a
consolidated operating revenue of Rs. 2,517 crores as
compared to Rs. 2,013 crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of 25%. The consolidated profit after tax after
non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. 115 crores as
compared to Rs. 68 crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of 69.1%.
Mahindra Logistics Limited, a listed subsidiary in the logistics
business, reported a consolidated operating revenue of
Rs. 5,128 crores as compared to Rs. 4,141 crores in
the previous year registering an increase of 23.8%. The
consolidated profit after tax after non-controlling interests
for the year is Rs. 26 crores as compared to Rs. 18 crores in
the previous year, registering an increase of 44.4%.
Swaraj Engines Limited*, a listed subsidiary in the business of
manufacture of Diesel Engines and its components, reported
operating revenue of Rs. 1,422 crores as compared to
Rs. 1,138 crores in the previous year registering an increase
of 25%. The profit after tax for the year is Rs. 134 crores as
compared to Rs. 109 crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of 22.9%.
* During the year ended 31st March, 2023, the Controlling status
was changed from associate to subsidiary.
During the year under review, Mahindra Holidays & Resorts
Harihareshwar Limited, Resurgence Solarize Urja Private
Limited, V-Link Freight Services Private Limited, Swaraj
Engines Limited, Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited,
Emergent Solren Private Limited, Guestline Hospitality
Management and Developement Services Limited, MLL Global
Logistics Limited and M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited became subsidiaries of your Company.
Further, MLL Mobility Private Limited (Formerly known as Meru
Mobility Tech Private Limited) (“MLL Mobility”), V-Link Fleet
Solutions Private Limited (“VFSPL”) and V-Link Automotive
Services Private Limited (“VASPL”) have ceased to be wholly
owned subsidiaries of MLL Express Services Private Limited
(Formerly known as Meru Travel Solutions Private Limited)
(“MLL Express”), a wholly owned subsidiary of your Company

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

and have become wholly owned subsidiaries of Mahindra
Logistics Limited (“MLL”), a listed subsidiary of your Company.
Further, MLL Express has also ceased to be a wholly owned
subsidiary of your Company and has become a wholly owned
subsidiary of MLL. Since, MLL is a listed subsidiary of your
Company, MLL Express, MLL Mobility, VFSPL and VASPL
continue to remain the subsidiaries of your Company.
During the year under review, Kiinteistö Oy Himos Gardens,
Kiinteistö Oy Vanha Ykköstii, Kiinteistö Oy Katinnurkka,
Kiinteistö Oy Tenetinlahti, Kiinteistö Oy Mällösniemi, Kiinteistö
Oy Rauhan Ranta 1, Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta 2, Kiinteistö
Oy Tiurunniemi, Kiinteistö Oy Kylpyläntorni 1, Kiinteistö
Oy Spa Lofts 2, Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts 3, Kiinteistö Oy
Kuusamon Pulkkajärvi 1, Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt
1, OFD Holding BV, Origin Direct Asia Ltd, Origin Fruit Direct
B.V., Origin Fruit Services South America SpA, Origin Direct Asia
(Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd., Mahindra Engineering and Chemical
Products Limited, Retail Initiative Holdings Limited, Mahindra
Retail Limited, Ssangyong Motor Company, SsangYong
Australia Pty Limited, Ssangyong European Parts Center B.V,
SY Auto Capital Co., LTD, Merakisan Private Limited, Mahindra
Tractor Assembly Inc., Mahindra Integrated Township Limited,
Mahindra Residential Developers Limited, Mahindra West Africa
Ltd, Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S., Peugeot Motocycles Italia
S.r.l. (in liquidazione), Peugeot Motocycles Deutschland GmbH,
PMTC Engineering S.r.l., Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited,
Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution Holding Company (Europe)
B.V., HCR Management Oy, Mahindra Bangladesh Private
Limited, Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited and Mahindra
Namaste Limited ceased to be subsidiaries of your Company.
Ssangyong Motor Company, after ceasing to be a Subsidiary
of the Company, became an Associate for a short period of
time and ceased thereafter.
During the year under review, Brainbees Solutions Private
Limited became an Associate of your Company pursuant to
the Scheme of Merger by Absorption of Mahindra Engineering
and Chemical Products Limited, Retail Initiative Holdings
Limited and Mahindra Retail Limited with the Company
becoming effective.
During the year under review, Swaraj Engines Limited and
M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited ceased to be
Associates of your Company as they became Subsidiaries of
your Company.
During the year under review, Supermarket Capri Oy
changed its name to Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt
1, Meru Travel Solutions Private Limited changed its name
to MLL Express Services Private Limited, Meru Mobility Tech
Private Limited changed its name to MLL Mobility Private

60

Limited and Mahindra Intertrade Limited changed its name
to Mahindra Accelo Limited.
Subsequent to the year end, Bristlecone Ltd. changed its name
to Bristlecone Worldwide, Inc. pursuant to its registration in
Delaware as a US corporation, Mahindra Telecom Energy
Management Services Private Limited changed its name to
Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited and Mahindra
Renewables Private Limited changed its name to Megasolis
Renewables Private Limited.
Subsequent to the year end, Sanyo Special Steel
Manufacturing India Private Limited (formerly known as
Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited) ceased
to be an Associate of your Company. Mahindra CIE
Automotive Limited, an Associate of the Company, has on
16th May, 2023 informed the Stock Exchanges that its
application for change of name from Mahindra CIE Automotive
Limited to CIE Automotive India Limited has been approved
by the Central Government on 15th May, 2023. As on the
date of this Report, the Master Data on the website of the
Ministry of Corporate Affairs www.mca.gov.in carries the
new name of the company and that the ‘fresh certificate
of Incorporation pursuant to change in name’ as per
Section 13(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 29
of the Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014 was awaited.
A Report on the performance and ﬁnancial position of each
of the subsidiaries, associates and joint venture companies
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements and their
contribution to the overall performance of the Company, is
provided in Form AOC‑1 and forms part of this Annual Report.
The Policy for determining material subsidiaries as approved
by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s website and
can be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments.

C.	JOINT VENTURES, ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
During the year, Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL)
was incorporated to undertake the 4 (Four) Wheel Passenger
Electric Vehicles business, as a wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company. Accordingly, the Company transferred certain
identified assets (capital work in progress) pertaining to the
4 (Four) Wheel Passenger Electric Vehicles to MEAL. Further,
the Company entered into Securities Subscription Agreement
and Shareholders’ Agreement with British International
Investment Plc (“BII”) to invest upto Rs. 1,925 crores each in

61

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

MEAL in two or more tranches. BII would invest in the form
of Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (“CCPS”) at a
valuation of upto Rs. 70,070 crores, resulting in 2.75% to
4.76% ownership for BII in MEAL. The said investment by
BII also envisages BII having a nominal shareholding of 100
Equity Shares in MEAL. Part of the investment by BII in CCPS
of MEAL was completed during the financial year.

Acquiring balance stake in Sampo Rosenlew
Oy, Finland (“Sampo”)
During the year, your Company exercised the Call Option
and entered into the Share Purchase Agreement to acquire
the balance 1,317 Equity Shares of Sampo at a price of
Euro 3,333 per share from other shareholders, increasing the
equity stake of the Company in Sampo from 79.13% to 100%.
Consequently, Sampo has become a wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company.

Induction of OTPP, the financial partner in
Renewables Business
During the year, Mahindra Holdings Limited (“MHL”), a wholly
owned subsidiary of your Company, and Mahindra Susten
Private Limited (“MSPL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of MHL and
of your Company entered into a Share Purchase Agreement
and Shareholders’ Agreement with 2452991 Ontario Limited
(“2OL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan Board (“OTPP”) for the sale of 30% stake in MSPL by MHL
to 2OL, with an option for an additional 9.99% stake sale in
MSPL by MHL to 2OL or any other investor. The agreement
also envisages the formation of an Infrastructure Investment
Trust (“InvIT”) through a series of transactions, subject to
applicable laws and regulations, having MSPL and 2OL or any
of its affiliates (Ontario Teachers’) as Sponsors. The InvIT shall
own identified operational renewable assets.
The transaction will enable your Company to unlock value in
the Renewable Energy Sector and it will continue to invest
along with Ontario Teachers’ to help realise its twin objectives
of accelerated growth and global leadership in ESG. The first
stage of the transaction entailing the sale of 30% stake in
MSPL was completed during the financial year.

SsangYong Motor Company (SYMC)
As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, post termination of
Investment Agreement executed with Edison Motor Consortium
pursuant to Court Receivership process as per the provisions
of Korean Debtor Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy Act, SYMC
initiated a process to invite new investor(s). During the year,

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Seoul Bankruptcy Court approved a rehabilitation plan reflecting
the Investment Agreement between the KG consortium, led
by South Korea based conglomerate KG Group and SYMC. KG
consortium acquired a stake of 80.50% in debt-ridden SYMC
for KRW 930 billion in one or more tranches. The Company’s
ownership and outstanding dues in SYMC were restructured
as part of the rehabilitation plan. The Company received cash
payment of approximately KRW 10.2 billion and the shareholding
of the Company stands reduced to approximately 5.2% post the
completion of all tranches by KG Group.

Divestment of stake in CIE Automotive
India Limited (“CIE”)
On 27th September, 2022, your Company sold 82,42,444
equity shares at a gross price of Rs. 285 per share
representing 2.173% of the paid-up share capital of CIE, a
listed associate of the Company.
Thereafter, on 13th March, 2023, your Company further sold
2,29,80,000 equity shares at a gross price of Rs. 357.39 per
share representing 6.058% of the paid-up share capital of
CIE. Following the aforesaid sale of shares, the shareholding
of the Company in CIE has come down from 9.253% to
3.195% of its share capital.
Subsequent to the year end, the Company sold the balance
3.195% equity stake in CIE comprising of 1,21,22,068 equity
shares at a gross price of Rs. 447.6501 per share and the
Company’s shareholding in CIE has become Nil.

Divestment of stake in Peugeot Motocycles
S A S. (“PMTC”)
During the year, Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l. (“MTWEH”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (“PMTC”) and Purple Holding
(a wholly owned subsidiary of Mutares Holding-56 GmbH)
executed an Irrevocable Offer and as a part of the said Offer,
inter alia agreed to:
●	Conversion of existing 3,12,085 ordinary shares held
by MTWEH in PMTC to 3,12,085 “Preferred Shares A”
whereby the existing 100% shareholding and voting
rights of MTWEH in PMTC stand reduced to 50% in terms
of shareholding and 19.99% in terms of voting rights.
●	Investment by MTWEH in PMTC in the form of
subscription to Bonds redeemable into “Preferred
Shares A” of PMTC i.e. “Obligations Remboursables en
Actions de Préférence A” known as “ORA”.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

●	Investment of an amount of Euro 7 million by Purple
in PMTC in the form of subscription to 3,12,085
“Preferred Shares B” which would entitle Purple to a
50% shareholding and 80.01% voting rights in PMTC.
Pursuant to the transaction closure on 31st January, 2023,
PMTC and its subsidiaries have ceased to be subsidiaries of
MTWEH and consequently of the Company.

Merger of Mahindra Electric
Limited with the Company

Mobility

As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, the Board of
Directors of your Company at its Meeting held on 28th May, 2021,
subject to requisite approvals / consents, approved the Scheme
of Merger by Absorption of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited
(“MEML”) with the Company and their respective shareholders
(“Scheme”) under the provisions of sections 230 to 232 and
other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
The Scheme was made effective from 2nd February, 2023 upon
receipt of approval from the National Company Law Tribunal,
Mumbai Bench (“NCLT”) and such other statutory / Government
authorities as directed by the NCLT. The Appointed Date of
the Scheme was 1st April, 2021 and the entire assets and
liabilities of MEML have been transferred to and recorded by
the Company as per applicable accounting standards.
Upon the Scheme becoming effective, Ordinary (Equity)
Shares of the Company have been issued to the shareholders
of MEML (other than the Company or subsidiary(ies) of the
Company holding shares directly and jointly with its nominee
shareholders) in accordance with the share exchange ratio
under the Scheme i.e. 480 (Four Hundred and Eighty) Ordinary
(Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each fully paid-up of the Company for
every 10,000 (Ten Thousand) Equity Shares of Rs. 10 each
fully paid-up held in MEML as on Record Date. The shares held
in MEML by the Company or its subsidiary(ies) directly and
jointly with its nominee shareholders stand cancelled upon
the Scheme becoming effective. Additionally, the stock options
held by the eligible ESOP holders of MEML as on the Record
Date have been substituted with ESOPs of the Company
in accordance with the Scheme. Accordingly, the Merger by
Absorption of MEML with the Company stands completed.

Induction of International Finance Corporation,
the financial partner, in Last Mile Mobility
Business
During the year, the Company approved sale / transfer
of assets and / or business pertaining to the Last Mile
Mobility Business of the Company to a new company to be

62

incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
(“NewCo”). Further, the Company entered into a Subscription
Agreement and Shareholders Agreement with International
Finance Corporation (“IFC”) a member of the World Bank
Group, whereby IFC has agreed to invest upto Rs. 600 crores
in the NewCo, in one or more tranches.
IFC’s investment will be in the form of Compulsorily
Convertible Preference Shares (“CCPS”) at a valuation of up
to Rs. 6,020 crores, resulting in an ownership of between
9.97% to 13.64% for IFC in NewCo. IFC would inter alia have
a right to give voting instructions to the Company upto
11.8% of the paid-up capital of NewCo in tranches until
conversion of CCPS.

Increase of stake in Mahindra Aerospace
Private Limited
The Company acquired 7,67,59,301 Equity Shares of
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited, a subsidiary of the
Company (“MAPL”) from the other shareholders of MAPL.
Upon completion of the said transaction, the shareholding of
the Company in MAPL has increased from 91.59% to 100%
of the Equity Share Capital of MAPL. Consequently, MAPL has
become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.

Sale of Stake held by the Company in TVS
Automobile Solutions Private Limited
During the year, your Company sold 3,32,195 Equity Shares
of Rs. 10 each and 100 Compulsorily Convertible Preference
Shares of Rs. 10 each in TVS Automobile Solutions Private
Limited (“TASL”) constituting 2.76% of the Paid-up Capital
of TASL on a fully diluted basis. Post this sale, the Company
does not have any equity interest in TASL.

Increase of stake in M.I.T.R.A.
Equipments Private Limited

Agro

During the year, your Company increased its shareholding
in M.I.T.R.A. Agro Equipments Private Limited (“MITRA”), from
47.33% to 100% on a fully diluted basis, for an aggregate
consideration of around Rs. 61.71 crores. MITRA is an Indian
company engaged in the business of designing, developing,
manufacturing, assembling and selling high precision orchard
sprayers and is a trusted brand for farmers growing fruits
such as grapes, pomegranates and oranges. The purchase of
additional equity shares in MITRA would aid the Company’s
Farm Equipment Sector’s growth and expansion in the
growing horticulture sector.

63

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Divestment of stake in Mahindra Waste to
Energy Solutions Limited by the Company
to Blue Planet Environmental Solutions
Pte. Ltd.
During the year, your Company increased its shareholding
in Mahindra Waste to Energy Solutions Limited (“MWTESL”)
from 87.39% to 100% by acquiring the balance 12.61%
of the Paid-Up Equity Share Capital of MWTESL making it
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Further, the
Company entered into a Share Purchase Agreement and a
Shareholders Agreement with Blue Planet Environmental
Solutions Pte Ltd. (“BPES”) for the sale of 80% of the
Paid-Up Equity Share Capital of MWTESL to BPES or
any of its affiliates, in one or more tranches at a price
of Rs. 8.44 per share for an aggregate consideration of
Rs. 20.25 crores (“First Closing”). Following the sale, the
Company’s holding in MWTESL would reduce to 20% and
MWTESL would cease to be a Subsidiary of the Company.
Further, the Company will have a right of “put option” to
sell the balance 20% of the Paid-Up Equity Share Capital
of MWTESL and BPES will have the right of “call option”,
after 24 months from First Closing, at a price not less than
Rs. 8.44 per share, subject to certain closing conditions
(“Second Closing”). The Sale price agreed for this tranche
shall be higher of Rs. 8.44 (rounded off) or the fair value
per share of MWTESL multiplied by the number of shares
being sold, as adjusted upwards in the event of occurrence
of certain specified events.

Sale of stake in Mahindra Consulting
Engineers Limited by the Company to
Artelia Holding SAS (“Artelia”)
During the year, your Company has sold its entire stake in
Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited (“MCEL”), a subsidiary
of the Company i.e. 60.88% of the Paid-Up Equity Share
Capital of MCEL to Artelia, in one or more tranches at a
price of Rs. 89.66 per share for an aggregate consideration
of Rs. 10,31,98,660. Following the sale, MCEL has ceased
to be the subsidiary of the Company. Consequent to the
above, Mahindra Namaste Limited (“MNL”), a wholly owned
subsidiary of MCEL has also ceased to be a subsidiary of
the Company.

Increase of stake in Swaraj Engines Limited
During the year, your Company increased its shareholding in
Swaraj Engines Limited (“SEL”) by acquiring 21,14,349 Equity

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

shares constituting 17.41% of the Paid-up Equity Share Capital
of SEL from Kirloskar Industries Limited (“KIL”). Consequently,
the shareholding and voting rights of the Company in SEL
have increased from 34.72% to 52.13% of the Equity Share
Capital of SEL and SEL has become a listed subsidiary of the
Company. SEL is into manufacturing and supplying of diesel
Engines in the range of 22 HP to above 65 HP for fitment in
tractors to Farm Equipment Sector of the Company.

Sale of Stake by Mahindra Agri Solutions
Limited (“MASL”) in Merakisan Private
Limited, a subsidiary of MASL
During the year, Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited (“MASL”),
a subsidiary of the Company, has sold its entire stake
aggregating 91.59% of the Paid-up Equity Share Capital in
Merakisan Private Limited (“MKPL”), a subsidiary of MASL, to
Mr. Prashant Patil, founder and Whole time Director & CEO
of MKPL. Following the completion of aforesaid sale, MKPL
ceased to be a subsidiary of MASL and consequently that
of the Company.

Sale of Stake held by the Company in Sanyo
Special Steel Manufacturing India Private
Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo
Special Steel Private Limited) pursuant to
exercise of a Put Option
As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, the Company
had agreed to sell 34,75,264 Equity Shares of Rs. 10 each
held by the Company in Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing
India Private Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo
Special Steel Private Limited) (“SSSMIPL”) constituting
22.81% of the Paid-up Capital of SSSMIPL to Sanyo Special
Steel Co., Ltd (“Sanyo”) pursuant to exercise of a Put Option
available to the Company on Sanyo under the Shareholders’
Agreement. Following the completion of aforesaid sale,
SSSMIPL has ceased to be an Associate of the Company.

D. INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The Corporate Governance Policies guide the conduct
of affairs of your Company and clearly delineate the
roles, responsibilities and authorities at each level of its
governance structure and key functionaries involved in
governance. The Code of Conduct for Senior Management
and Employees of your Company (the Code of Conduct)
commits Management to ﬁnancial and accounting policies,
systems and processes. The Corporate Governance Policies
and the Code of Conduct stand widely communicated across
your Company at all times.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Your Company’s Financial Statements are prepared on the
basis of the Signiﬁcant Accounting Policies that are carefully
selected by Management and approved by the Audit Committee
and the Board. These Accounting policies are reviewed and
updated from time to time.
Your Company uses SAP ERP Systems as a business enabler
and to maintain its Books of Account. The transactional
controls built into the SAP ERP Systems ensure appropriate
segregation of duties, appropriate level of approval mechanisms
and maintenance of supporting records. The Policies related
to the Information Management reinforce the control
environment. The systems, Standard Operating Procedures
and controls are reviewed by Management. These systems and
controls are subjected to Internal Audit and their ﬁndings and
recommendations are reviewed by the Audit Committee which
ensures the implementation.
The SAP ERP System has feature of recording an Audit
Trail of each and every transaction, creating an edit log
of each change made in books of account along with the
date when such changes were made and ensuring that
the audit trail cannot be disabled, as mandated under the
recent amendment under Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014,
effective 1st April, 2023.
Your Company has in place adequate internal ﬁnancial controls
with reference to the Financial Statements commensurate
with the size, scale and complexity of its operations. Your
Company’s Internal Financial Controls were deployed through
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), that addresses material risks in your
Company’s operations and ﬁnancial reporting objectives.
Such controls have been assessed during the year under
review taking into consideration the essential components
of internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Based on the
results of such assessments carried out by the Management, no
reportable material weakness or signiﬁcant deﬁciencies in the
design or operation of internal ﬁnancial controls was observed.
Your Company recognizes that the Internal Financial
Controls cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving
ﬁnancial, operational and compliance reporting objectives
because of its inherent limitations. Also, projections of
any evaluation of the Internal Financial Controls to future
periods are subject to the risk that the Internal Financial
Controls may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. Accordingly, regular
audits and review processes ensure that such systems are
reinforced on an ongoing basis.

64

E.	
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
REPORT
A detailed analysis of your Company’s performance is
discussed in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report,
which forms part of this Annual Report.

F. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has in place a robust process for approval of
Related Party Transactions and on Dealing with Related Parties.
As per the process, necessary details for each of the Related
Party Transactions as applicable along with the justification are
provided to the Audit Committee in terms of the Company’s Policy
on Materiality and Dealing with Related Party Transactions and
as required under SEBI Circular dated 22nd November, 2021. The
Material Related Party Transactions approved by the Members
of the Company are also reviewed / monitored on quarterly basis
by the Audit Committee of the Company as per Regulation 23
of the Listing Regulations and Section 177 of the Companies
Act, 2013.
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were in
the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis.
During the year under review, your Company has entered into
Material Related Party Transactions as approved by the Members
under Regulation 23 of the Listing Regulations.
The Company has not entered into Material Related Party
Transactions as per the provisions of the Companies Act,
2013 and a confirmation to this effect as required under
section 134(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013 is given in Form
AOC-2 as Annexure II, which forms part of this Annual Report.
The Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party
Transactions as approved by the Board is uploaded on the
Company’s website and can be accessed in the Governance
section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/policies-and-documents.

G. AUDITORS
Statutory Auditors and Auditors’ Report
Messrs B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI
Firm Registration Number 101248W/W-100022) were
re-appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company to
hold ofﬁce for a second term of 5 years from the conclusion
of the 76th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 5th August,
2022 until the conclusion of the 81st AGM of the Company
to be held in the year 2027.

65

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

The Auditors’ Report for FY 2022-23 is unmodiﬁed i.e. it does
not contain any qualiﬁcation, reservation or adverse remark
or disclaimer.

section 141(3)(g) of the Companies Act, 2013 and have also

Secretarial Auditor

section 141(4) of the Companies Act, 2013.

Pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Companies
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Company has
appointed Mr. Sachin Bhagwat, Practicing Company Secretary
(Certiﬁcate of Practice Number: 6029) to undertake the
Secretarial Audit of the Company.

The Audit Committee has also received a Certiﬁcate from

The Company has annexed to this Board’s Report as
Annexure III, a Secretarial Audit Report for the Financial Year
2022-23 given by the Secretarial Auditor.
The Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any qualiﬁcation,
reservation or adverse remark or disclaimer.

Annual Secretarial Compliance Report
The Company has undertaken an audit for the Financial
Year 2022-23 for all applicable compliances as per SEBI
Regulations and Circulars / Guidelines issued thereunder.
The Annual Secretarial Compliance Report duly signed
by Mr. Sachin Bhagwat has been submitted to the Stock
Exchanges and is annexed at Annexure IV to this Board’s
Report.

Secretarial Audit
Indian Subsidiary

of

Material

Unlisted

There is no Material Unlisted Indian Subsidiary of the Company
as on 31st March, 2023 and as such the requirement under
Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations regarding the
Secretarial Audit of Material Unlisted Indian Subsidiary is not
applicable to the Company for the Financial Year 2022-23.

Cost Auditors
The Board had appointed Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost
Accountants (Firm Registration Number 000611), as Cost
Auditor for conducting the audit of cost records of the
Company for the Financial Year 2022-23.
The Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Audit
Committee, appointed Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants
(Firm Registration Number 000611), as the Cost Auditors of
the Company for the Financial Year 2023-24 under section
148 of the Companies Act, 2013. Messrs D. C. Dave & Co.
have conﬁrmed that their appointment is within the limits of

certiﬁed that they are free from any disqualiﬁcations speciﬁed
under section 141(3) and proviso to section 148(3) read with

the Cost Auditors certifying their independence and
arm’s length relationship with the Company.
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, the
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is required
to be placed before the Members in a General Meeting
for their ratiﬁcation. Accordingly, a Resolution seeking
Members’ ratiﬁcation for the remuneration payable to
Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Auditors is included in the
Notice convening the Annual General Meeting.

Cost Records
As per Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013, read
with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014,
your Company is required to maintain cost records and
accordingly, such accounts and records are maintained.

Reporting of Frauds by Auditors
During the year under review, the Statutory Auditors, Cost
Auditors and Secretarial Auditor have not reported any
instances of frauds committed in the Company by its Ofﬁcers
or Employees to the Audit Committee under section 143(12)
of the Companies Act, 2013.

H.	
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES,
INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES
Particulars of the loans given, investment made or guarantee
given or security provided and the purpose for which the loan
or guarantee or security is proposed to be utilised by the
recipient of the loan or guarantee or security are provided in
Note Nos. 8 and 40 to the Financial Statements.

I.

PUBLIC DEPOSITS AND LOANS/ADVANCES

Your Company had discontinued acceptance of Fixed
Deposits with effect from 1st April, 2014.
All the deposits from public and shareholders had already
matured as on 31st March, 2017. Out of these, 5 deposits
aggregating Rs. 0.84 lakhs from the public and shareholders
as on 31st March, 2023 had matured and had not been paid
at the end of the Financial Year as there is a restraining

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

order from the Court / Tribunal / Statutory Authority. Since
then, no deposits have been claimed.
There was no default in repayment of deposits or payment
of interest thereon during the year under review. There
are no deposits which are not in compliance with the
requirements of Chapter V of the Companies Act, 2013.
The particulars of loans / advances / investments, etc.,
required to be disclosed pursuant to Para A of Schedule V
of the Listing Regulations are furnished separately in this
Annual Report.
The transaction(s) of the Company with a company
belonging to the promoter / promoter group which
hold(s) more than 10% shareholding in the Company as
required pursuant to Para A of Schedule V of the Listing
Regulations are disclosed separately in the Financial
Statements of the Company.

J. EMPLOYEES
Key Managerial Personnel (KMP)
The following have been designated as the Key Managerial
Personnel of the Company pursuant to Sections 2(51) and
203 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, 2014:
(a)	Dr. Anish Shah – Managing Director and CEO
(b)	Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar – Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) (re-designated with effect from
15th March, 2023)
(c)	Mr. Manoj Bhat – Group Chief Financial Officer
(d) Mr. Narayan Shankar – Company Secretary

Employees’ Stock Option and Employees’
Welfare Schemes

66

Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021
(SBEB Regulations 2021):
1.	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option
Scheme – 2000 (2000 Scheme)*
2.	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option
Scheme – 2010 (2010 Scheme)
3.

M&M Employees Welfare Fund No. 1

4.

M&M Employees Welfare Fund No. 2

5.

M&M Employees Welfare Fund No. 3

* No outstanding options as on 31st March, 2023
There are no changes made to the above Schemes during
the year under review and these Schemes are in compliance
with the SBEB Regulations 2021. Your Company’s
Secretarial Auditor, Mr. Sachin Bhagwat, has certiﬁed that
the Company’s above-mentioned Schemes have been
implemented in accordance with the SBEB Regulations
2021, and the Resolutions passed by the Members for the
2000 Scheme and the 2010 Scheme.
Information as required under Regulation 14 read with
Part F of Schedule I of the SBEB Regulations 2021 has been
uploaded on the Company’s website and can be accessed
at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY23/
AnnualReport.zip.

Particulars
disclosures

of

Employees

and

related

The Company had 500 employees who were in receipt of
remuneration of not less than Rs. 1,02,00,000 during the
year ended 31st March, 2023 or not less than Rs. 8,50,000
per month during any part of the year.

During the year under review, based on the recommendation
of the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(GNRC) of your Company, the Trustees of Mahindra &
Mahindra Employees’ Stock Option Trust have granted
Stock Options to employees under the Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme 2010. No Stock
Options have been granted to employees under the Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme 2000
(2000 Scheme).

Details of employee remuneration as required under
provisions of Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013
read with Rule 5(2) & 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 will
be made available during 21 days before the Annual General
Meeting in electronic mode to any Shareholder upon request
sent at agm.inspection@mahindra.com. Such details are also
available on your Company’s website and can be accessed
at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY23/
AnnualReport.zip.

The Company has in force the following Schemes which
get covered under the provisions of SEBI (Share Based

Disclosures with respect to the remuneration of Directors,
Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) and employees as required

67

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with
Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 are given in
Annexure V to this Report.

Industrial Relations
The year under review witnessed a very positive Industrial
Relations Scenario across all manufacturing locations for the
Automotive and Farm Equipment Sectors.
Your Company’s focus continues towards propagating proactive
and employee centric practices. The transformational work
culture initiative that aims to create an engaged workforce
with an innovative, productive and a competitive shop-floor
ecosystem continues to grow in strength.
Some examples of the programs put in place includes
‘Rise2.0 for Associates’, Associate Leadership Development
Program, Development of Self-Managed Team, Employee of
the year, e-compliance, reward and recognition for associates
and programs on Code of Conduct, POSH, ABAC and Human
Rights. The Employee Relations Council is dedicated towards
building a positive Work Culture and leads the design and
implementation of these programs and reviews its progress.
With the objective of capability building, developing future
ready workforce and fostering togetherness at the workplace,
your Company implements multiple training and engagement
programs on an ongoing basis. These include various
behavioural and functional programs such as Behavioural
based safety, quality tools, TPM, continuous improvement,
decision making, learning agility and programs on skill
building such as Robotics, PLC Programming, Networking, etc.
ASDC certification program for selected Trainees were also
on offer. In its continuous endeavour to improve the employee
lifecycle processes, your Company has been ensuring that
Employee Connect Centre (ECC), the digital form of traditional
time office offers better experience in time and payroll
management of the associates. To enable self-paced learning,
Learning Management System (LMS) on digital platform for
associates has been helping immensely during this fast paced
work environment.
The Mahindra Skill Excellence initiative, a holistic approach to
enhance the skill and capabilities of shop floor associates, is
receiving good participation across manufacturing facilities.
In an endeavour to improve quality, reduce cost, ensure
safety, and improve productivity, your Company’s shop floor
associates managed to generate on an average 12 ideas per
person in the Financial Year 2023.

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

This year significant emphasis was also laid towards raising
awareness on health and wellness of employees in addition
to regular annual medical check-ups and health awareness
activities. Diet food has become a way of life. The Company
maintains an ‘Employee Health Index’ at an individual level,
and this has been a useful tool in identifying employees who
require focussed counselling and monitoring.
Proactive and employee-centric shop floor practices, a
focus on transparent communication of business goals, an
effective concern resolution mechanism, and a firm belief
that employees are the most valuable assets of the Company,
are the cornerstone of your Company’s employee relations
approach. An ‘open door policy’ with constant dialogue to
create win-win situations have helped your Company build
trust and harmony.
The industrial relations scenario continued to be largely positive
across all the manufacturing locations. Long Term Wage and
Bonus settlements were closed amicably for all the plants.
The sustained efforts towards building a transformational
work culture resulted in zero production loss in the Financial
Year 2022-23 and helped create a collaborative, healthy and
productive work environment.

Safety,
Occupational
Environment

Health

and

Your Company has in place the Safety, Occupational Health
& Environment (SOH&E) Policy. During the year under review,
the Company started all external physical assessments along
with Integrated Management System (IMS) certifications as
per the following standards, ISO: 9001: 2015, ISO: 14001:
2015 & ISO: 45001: 2018. The management commitment
towards SOH&E is demonstrated by adopting amendment
updates (including all notifications published) and
incorporating the same in mCompliance portal. The Company
implemented various initiatives by incorporating all new
emission Government specifications by following respective
notifications and guidelines complying to overall health and
hygiene parameters. The achievements were assessed through
periodic reviews by conducting monitoring and measurement
exercised by external authorized agencies.
At manufacturing locations, various annual events like Road
Safety Week, National Safety Day / Month and Fire Service
Week were celebrated. The training programs were leveraged
with new topics followed by on-the-job training (OJT) and
virtual reality (V.R.) programs for competency building
were deployed to train employees. In Safety, Health and
Environment competency building at Abhiyantriki, dexterity

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

training programs were arranged for associates. Special focus
is given on safety and fire safety by introducing Self-Managed
Teams (SMT’s) supporting sustainability roadmap to fulfill the
requirements.
The Company continues to focus on safety best practices,
by conducting Safety observation tours (SoT), monthly
themes on safety topics arising out of OHS risks. Horizontal
deployment followed by immediate corrective actions (ICA) as
well as permanent corrective actions (PCA) are implemented
and reviewed by top management. All monthly themes were
well participated and appreciated by all associates and officers.
Vigorous drive to eliminate overall at-risk behaviors is
conducted by exercising Behavior Based Safety (BBS)
Level 2. In order to reduce fire risk, your Company introduced
new Dry Sprinkler Powder Aerosol (DSPA) fire protection
system by upgrading and introducing modern technology to
eliminate property losses. Monthly results were monitored
by reviewing office fire (prevention and protection) systems.
Fire load reduction is monitored by setting up targets and
working towards sustenance of zero fire incidence across
each manufacturing location in each Sector. Additionally,
all locations are supported and protected by diesel engine
powered hydrant system.
Your Company has followed pattern defined by Central Safety
Council (CSC) of Mahindra and Mahindra Group Companies by
establishing a cross functional team (CFT) after assessment
through The Mahindra Safety Way (TMSW). Total 25 parameters
are assessed and evaluated stage wise covering all sectors
for the Mahindra Group companies across all the plants.
Upgradation of results declaration of reward and recognition
is given in Mahindra Rise Awards function. A virtual training
program was arranged on the topic – “Fire Safety @ Home” on
the occasion of Diwali festival for the employees of Mahindra
Group Companies and their families with an objective to create
awareness among employees and their family regarding Fire,
Fire hazards, Risk and Mitigation of the same.
Your Company carried out Risk to business analysis and
its mitigation plan, Management of change process, Gap
audits for designated license storage areas which were
audited by competent persons authorized by respective
authority governing the respective compliance. The Company
has exercised Statutory Safety, Occupational Health and
Environmental, Fire Safety, Electrical Safety Audits. For
the year under review, your Company achieved substantial
improvements in the results of Safety index and Fire Safety
index by adopting new initiatives. Focused drive was taken on
critical processes and operations.

68

To eliminate and minimize the overall environmental impact
in line with the “Environmental, Social and Governance” (ESG)
practices, your Company has continuously implemented
new projects. By revising the objectives, newer targets were
taken. New techniques used in various projects have been
implemented by your Company in zero carbon emission,
waste avoidance /minimization. Carbon footprint reduction
is achieved by new kaizens in new energy conservation
and improving share of renewable energy. Many of the
Company’s new initiatives have been shared by your Company
by demonstrating Health & Wellness Stall to enhance
sustainability performance for children by celebrating them on
the occasion of Founders Day. Rising awareness in the supplier
community was initiated to encourage their consultation and
participation in order to enable them to overcome current
and future business risks.
During the year under review, your Company started reporting
by reviewing the implementation status under Extended
Producer Responsibility Organizations (EPRO) with existing
set targets established by Central Government i.e., Central
Pollution Control Board by way of released new notifications on
Plastic, Tyers and batteries. Plastic elimination and recyclable
packaging material in maximum number of spares is initiated
by substituting the material as appropriate. Plastic waste
management activities cover pan India network developed
for plastic waste recycling management for all the Company’s
manufacturing plants and spares business units are also
involved with state wise network for its Suppliers and Dealers.
Your Company implemented various measures towards water
neutrality and achieved recycling by processing STP water
through RO and achieving less consumption of freshwater
requirement. By demonstrating implementation measures,
a marked improvement has been observed in ground
water recharging.
Your Company continued its commitment to improve the
well-being of employees and contract associates through
various activities. Education and awareness sessions were
conducted on enhancement by arranging Panel Discussion –
Listen to Your Heart and webinars on various topics were
held i.e., General health, Awareness & COVID 19 Updates,
Work Stress Management, Revive your Passion for work and
Session on Absenteeism.
Programs are being conducted by renowned faculties for
Mahindra family members such as Mass Blood PressureScreening Camp, Eye Check-up camp, Individual Physiotherapist
Consultation, Awareness session on Spine and Joint Care,
International Yoga Day Celebration followed by competitions
i.e., Best Yoga pose etc.

69

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Additionally, the Company has initiated Nutrition Month to
improve health at the operational stages working towards
fat elimination at workplace. Mahindra Master Chef, on the
spot salad making competition were organized for officers
and associates. The objective behind the competition was
to inculcate healthy food habits and awareness regarding
the choice of food. The participant’s creativity was revealed
through the beautiful designs and patterns formed with
different mouth-watering recipes.
The Company has also initiated a project for Emotional Health
with an objective of improvement in sleep quality required to
maintain the health at workplace.
Videos were created to improve the dexterity and posture
observed by employees at shop floor. First aid refresher
training programs were organized for employees and
associates.
During the year, programs such as Cancer Awareness on
Breast and Cervical Cancer screening camp for Women and
Health Talk – “Turn the Clock“ for all employees and their
family members, were arranged. Robust implementation of
compliance for Bio-medical Waste Disposal Management is
also monitored.
The Company aims at increasing awareness for environment
protection amongst all stakeholders by celebrating World
Ozone Day, World Environment Day, World Earth Day, World
Water Day and Energy Conservation Week and Water
Conservation Week, etc. on an annual basis.
The Total Recordable Frequency Rate (TRFR) was 0.10
accidents per million hours worked in Financial Year 2022-23
as compared to 0.08 in the last fiscal year.

Certifications/Recertifications
All Plants of your Company have undergone Surveillance
Audits and were certified for Standard ISO 45001: 2018
and ISO 14001: 2015. Further, all plants have implemented
Integrated Management System (IMS). Your Company is
re-certified for Zero Waste to Landfill with 99% and above
conversion rate which ensures the commitment of recycling
of waste at maximum extent to protect the environment.
The Senior Management revises and reviews the
performances periodically. Focus on new initiatives involving
all stakeholders coupled with management reviews have
helped your Company to demonstrate further step towards
excellence in SOH&E performance.

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

K. BOARD & COMMITTEES
Sad Demise of Mr. Keshub Mahindra,
Chairman Emeritus of the Company
Mr. Keshub Mahindra, Chairman Emeritus, Mahindra Group
passed away on 12th April, 2023. He was a well-known
philanthropist who redefined good corporate governance in
India. He was an exemplary statesman and an irreplaceable
figure in the Indian industry, revered for his vision, his
business acumen, his leadership by example, and above all,
for his uncompromising professional integrity.
Quote from Mr. Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra Group
“Mr. Keshub Mahindra was and will always remain a source
of inspiration for me and the entire Mahindra Group. He was
a man of principles and led from the front to preserve the
legacy of our founders which has ensured that the organisation
has remained rooted in ethics, values and good corporate
governance. Mr. Keshub Mahindra was known for his astute
business acumen that helped in transforming Mahindra Group
into a diversified federation of companies. His compassion, and
people-centric approach made him a global business icon, who
was much loved and respected”.
Mr. Keshub Mahindra will continue to be an inspiration to
everyone in the Mahindra Group.

Directors
During the Financial Year 2022-23, there was no change in
the Directors of the Company.

Independent Directors
The Company has received declarations from all the
Independent Directors of the Company confirming that they
meet the criteria of independence as prescribed both under
the Companies Act, 2013 and Listing Regulations.
The Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors
of the Company hold highest standards of integrity and
possess requisite expertise and experience required to fulfil
their duties as Independent Directors.
In terms of Section 150 of the Companies Act, 2013
read with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014, Independent
Directors of the Company have confirmed that they have
registered themselves with the databank maintained by The
Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, Manesar (“IICA”).

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

The Independent Directors are also required to undertake
online proficiency self-assessment test conducted by IICA
within a period of 2 (two) years from the date of inclusion
of their names in the data bank, unless they meet the
criteria specified for exemption.
The Independent Directors of the Company are exempt
from the requirement to undertake online proficiency
self-assessment test except Mr. Muthiah Murugappan who
has successfully completed the online proficiency selfassessment test.

Lead Independent Director
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Independent Director and
Chairman of Governance, Nomination and Remuneration
Committee is the Lead Independent Director. The role
and responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director are
provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming
part of this Annual Report.

Retirement by rotation
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra and Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves for
re-appointment at the 77th Annual General Meeting of the
Company scheduled to be held on 4th August, 2023.

Board Evaluation
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
and the Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an
annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its
Committees as well as performance of all the Directors
individually including Independent Directors, Chairman of
the Board, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector).
 Feedback Mechanism
Feedback was sought by way of a structured questionnaire
covering various aspects of the Board’s functioning such as
adequacy of the composition of the Board and its Committees,
Board Culture, Execution and Performance of Specific Duties,
Obligations and Governance and the evaluation was carried
out based on responses received from the Directors.
 Evaluation of Committees
The performance evaluation of Committees was based on
criteria such as structure and composition of Committees,
attendance and participation of member of the Committees,
fulfilment of the functions assigned to Committees by the
Board and applicable regulatory framework, frequency and

70

adequacy of time allocated at the Committee Meetings to
fulfil duties assigned to it, adequacy and timeliness of the
Agenda and Minutes circulated, comprehensiveness of the
discussions and constructive functioning of the Committees,
effectiveness of the Committee’s recommendation for the
decisions of the Board, etc.
 Evaluation of Directors and Board

A separate exercise was carried out by the Governance,
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”) of the
Board to evaluate the performance of Individual Directors.
The performance evaluation of the Non-Independent
Directors and the Board as a whole was carried out by
the Independent Directors. The performance evaluation
of the Chairman of the Board was also carried out by the
Independent Directors, taking into account the views of
the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. The
performance evaluation of the Managing Director and the
Executive Director of the Company was carried out by the
Chairman of the Board and other Directors.
 Criteria for Independent Directors

The performance evaluation of Independent Directors was
based on various criteria, inter alia, including attendance
at Board and Committee Meetings, skill, experience, ability
to challenge views of others in a constructive manner,
knowledge acquired with regard to the Company’s business,
understanding of industry and global trends, etc.
 Criteria for Chairman
The performance evaluation of Chairman of the Board
was based on various criteria, inter alia, including style of
Chairman’s leadership, effective engagement with other
Board members during and outside the meetings, allocation
of time provided to other Board members at the meetings,
effective engagement with shareholders during general
meetings, etc.
 Criteria for Managing Director and Executive Director
The performance evaluation of Managing Director and
Executive Director was based on various criteria, inter alia,
including leadership style, standards of integrity, fairness
and transparency demonstrated, identification of strategic
targets, anticipation of future demands and opportunities,
resource staffing to meet short term and long term goals,
engagement with Board and Committee members, updating
Board on significant issues, commitment to organisational
values, vision and mission, adaptation to meet changing
circumstances, knowledge and sensitivity of stakeholders’

71

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

needs within and outside the Company, demonstrated and
effective communication skills.
 Results of Evaluation
The results of the Evaluation for the year under review were
shared with the Board, Chairman of respective Committees
and individual Directors. The results of Evaluation showed
high level of commitment and Engagement of Board, its
various Committees and Senior leadership.
As part of the outcome of the Performance Evaluation
exercise it was noted that the Board is Independent, operates
at a high level of Governance Standards and is committed to
creating value for all stakeholders.
It was also noted that the Meetings of the Board are well
planned and run effectively by the Chair, its Committees are
managed well and continue to perform on their respective
focus areas of Governance and Internal Controls.
It was also noted that the Company during the year under
review conducted a session on EV familiarisation with the
Board highlighting the Company’s Strategy and Approach
and an Exclusive Strategy and Technology Meeting with
the Board Members to apprise and seek feedback from the
Board on future initiatives in these areas.
Based on the outcome of the Evaluation of the year under
review, the Board has agreed to maintain the High Standards
of Governance, Visibility and Interaction in the coming years.
The Directors expressed their satisfaction with the Evaluation
process. During the year under review, GNRC ascertained
and reconfirmed that the deployment of “questionnaire” as
a methodology, is effective for evaluation of performance of
Board and Committees and Individual Directors.

Policies
Your Company has adopted the following Policies which,
inter alia, include criteria for determining qualifications,
positive attributes and independence of a Director:
(a)	Policy on Appointment of Directors and Senior
Management and succession planning for orderly
succession to the Board and the Senior Management;

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in
the Senior Management Team in accordance with the criteria
laid down in the said Policy, succession planning for Directors
and Senior Management, and Policy statement for Talent
Management framework of the Company.
Policy (b) mentioned above sets out the approach to
Compensation of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and
other employees in the Company.
Policies mentioned at (a) and (b) above are
available on the website and can be accessed
in
the
Governance
section
at
the
Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments.

Familiarisation Programme for Independent
Directors / Non-Executive Directors
The Members of the Board of the Company are afforded
many opportunities to familiarise themselves with the
Company, its Management and its operations. The Directors
are provided with all the documents to enable them to have a
better understanding of the Company, its various operations
and the industry in which it operates.
All the Independent Directors of the Company are made
aware of their roles and responsibilities at the time of
their appointment through a formal letter of appointment,
which also stipulates various terms and conditions of their
engagement.
Executive Directors and Senior Management provide
an overview of the operations and familiarize the new
Non-Executive Directors on matters related to the
Company’s values and commitments. They are also
introduced to the organization structure, constitution of
various committees, board procedures, risk management
strategies, etc.
Strategic Presentations are made to the Board where
Directors get an opportunity to interact with Senior
Management. Directors are also informed of the various
developments in the Company through Press Releases,
emails, etc.

(b)	Policy for remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial
Personnel and other employees.

The Company has a web based portal i.e. Board portal,
accessible to all the Directors which, inter alia, contains the
following information:

Policy (a) mentioned above includes the criteria for
determining
qualifications,
positive
attributes
and
independence of a Director, identification of persons who are

●	Roles, responsibilities and liabilities of Independent
Directors under the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing
Regulations

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

●

Board Minutes, Agenda and Presentations

●

Annual Reports

●

Code of Conduct for Directors

(e)	they have laid down adequate Internal Financial Controls
to be followed by the Company and such Internal
Financial Controls were operating effectively during the
Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023;

●	Terms and conditions of appointment of Independent
Directors.
Pursuant to Regulation 25(7) of the Listing Regulations,
the Company imparted various familiarisation programmes
for its Directors including periodic review of Investments
of

the

Company

at

Strategic

Investment

72

Committee

Meetings, Regulatory updates, Industry Outlook, Business
Strategy at the Board Meetings and changes with respect
to the Companies Act, Taxation and other matters, Listing
Regulations, Framework for Related Party Transactions, etc.
at the Audit Committee Meetings, Economic Environment &
Global Scenario, Frontier Risks, Business Entity Risks, etc. at
the Risk Management Committee Meetings, Products Launch
and Showcase of New Vehicles, etc. The details as required
under Regulations 46 and 62(1A) of the Listing Regulations
are available on the website of your Company at the web link:
https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY23/AnnualReport.zip.

Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013,
your Directors, based on the representations received
from the Operating Management and after due enquiry,
conﬁrm that:
(a)	in the preparation of the annual accounts for the
Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023, the applicable
accounting standards have been followed;
(b)	they had in consultation with Statutory Auditors,
selected accounting policies and applied them
consistently, and made judgments and estimates that
are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at
31st March, 2023 and of the proﬁt of the Company for
the year ended on that date;
(c)	they have taken proper and sufﬁcient care for the
maintenance of adequate accounting records in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act,
2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and
for preventing and detecting fraud and irregularities;
(d)	they have prepared the annual accounts on a going
concern basis;

(f)	they had devised proper systems to ensure compliance
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that
such systems were adequate and operating effectively
throughout the Financial Year ended 31st March, 2023.

Board Meetings, Annual General Meeting
and NCLT Convened Meeting
A calendar of Meetings is prepared and circulated in advance
to the Directors.
During the year 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023, nine
Board Meetings were held on: 28th May, 2022, 7th July,
2022, 5th August, 2022, 19th August, 2022, 9th September,
2022, 10th and 11th November, 2022, 21st November,
2022, 10th February, 2023 and 15th March, 2023. The
76th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company was
held on 5th August, 2022 through Video Conferencing / Other
Audio Visual Means.
Further, a Meeting of the Equity Shareholders of your
Company was convened on 19th August, 2022 through
VC / OVAM facility as per the directions of the Hon’ble
National Company Law Tribunal (“NCLT”), Mumbai Bench vide
its Order dated 10th June, 2022.

Meetings of Independent Directors
The Independent Directors of your Company often meet
before the Board Meetings without the presence of the
Chairman of the Board or the Managing Director or the
Executive Director or other Non-Independent Directors
or Chief Financial Ofﬁcer or any other Management
Personnel.
These Meetings are conducted in an informal and ﬂexible
manner to enable the Independent Directors to discuss
matters pertaining to, inter alia, review of performance
of Non-Independent Directors and the Board as a whole,
review the performance of the Chairman of the Company
(taking into account the views of the Executive and
Non-Executive Directors), assess the quality, quantity and
timeliness of ﬂow of information between the Company
Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board
to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.

73

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Five Meetings of Independent Directors were held during the
year and these meetings were well attended.

end of each quarter and submitted by the Managing Director
to the Board.

Audit Committee

Ethics Framework

The Committee comprises of four Directors viz.
Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee),
Ms. Shikha Sharma, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta and Mr. Haigreve
Khaitan. All the Members of the Committee are Independent
Directors and possess strong accounting and ﬁnancial
management knowledge. The Company Secretary of the
Company is the Secretary of the Committee.

The Company’s revised Code of Conduct (the Code) for
employees outlines the commitment to the principles of
integrity, transparency, and fairness. The refreshed Code
has been contemporised and aligned with the changes in
the internal and the external environments. It enables the
Company to make the right choices and demonstrate the
highest standards of integrity and ethical behaviour.

During the year, the scope of Audit Committee was amended
to, inter alia, align with the provisions of SEBI (Listing
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment)
Regulations, 2022, the details of which are furnished in the
Report on Corporate Governance that forms part of this
Annual Report.

The Ethics & Governance framework is also anchored by
clearly defined policies and procedures, covering areas such
as Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (ABAC), Policy on
Gifts & Entertainment (G&E), Policy on Prevention of Sexual
Harassment at Workplace (POSH), Whistle-Blower Policy (WB),
Business Partner Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct
to ensure robust Corporate Governance.

All the recommendations of the Audit Committee were
accepted by the Board.

L. GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Your Company has a rich legacy of ethical governance
practices many of which were implemented by the Company,
even before they were mandated by law. Your Company is
committed to transparency in all its dealings and places high
emphasis on business ethics.
Your Company continued to feature in the ‘Leadership’
category in the Corporate Governance Scorecard 2022
which is developed by Institutional Investor Advisory Services
India Limited (“IiAS”) with support from International Finance
Corporation (“IFC”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”).
A Report on Corporate Governance along with a Certiﬁcate
from the Statutory Auditors of the Company regarding
compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance as
stipulated under Schedule V of the Listing Regulations forms
part of this Annual Report.

Compliance Management
The Company has adopted a compliance management tool
which provides system-driven alerts to the respective owners
for complying with the applicable laws and regulations.
Certificates capturing the compliance status of all laws and
regulations applicable to the Company are generated at the

The Code of Conduct and all the Company’s policies are
accessible on the Company’s website; in the Governance
section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/policies-and-documents and on the Rise@Work the
Company’s intranet as well as on the mobile app Me-connect.
During the year, ABAC and G&E policies were revised to align
it with global governance practices. An annual awareness
program was implemented to enhance the understanding of
the revised Code and policies. New joiners are mandatorily
required to undertake e-learning modules on the Code, POSH
and ABAC. For reinforcing Code and policies, existing employees
are further required to complete mandatory e-Learning
(refresher) modules on the Code of Conduct, and other policies
viz; POSH, G&E and ABAC, annually. In addition to this, an Annual
Compliance Declaration Module is mandated for the employees.
In order to achieve regular reinforcement of the Code and
policies across the Company; the Ethics program has the
support of 145 Ethics Counsellors who help the Company
to amplify the values which the Company stands for and
facilitate regular conversations and training with their cohorts.
The Ethics Counsellors are trained by subject matter experts
(internal / external) on ethics and policies throughout the
year. During the year, they have trained approximately 3,500
employees and associates across various geographies on
the Code and policies related to ABAC, G&E, POSH and WB.
Further, your Company has driven sensitisation on the Code
and other ethics policies vide ethical guidelines, emailers,
videos, standees and posters across locations.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

The Company’s Vigil mechanism process is clearly defined
for identifying and resolving breaches related to the Code
of Conduct and the Company’s Ethics Policies. It is regularly
communicated throughout the Company vide the ‘Speak Up
campaign’. Data relating to such breaches are reviewed by
the Corporate Governance Council and the Audit Committee
that helps in determining the allocation of resources for
future policy development, any review of policies, process
improvement, training and awareness initiatives. The Corporate
Governance Council ensures that the Ethics & Governance
framework is executed effectively. The Group Ethics and
Governance Committee and Business Ethics and Governance
Committees help to ensure decisions on substantiated cases
are taken in a fair, just and consistent manner across various
functions of that business.

Vigil Mechanism
The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Companies Act,
2013, the Rules prescribed thereunder, and the Listing
Regulations is implemented through the Company’s
Whistle-Blower Policy. The Whistle-Blower Policy of your
Company is available on the Company’s website and can
be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments.
It enables the Directors, employees and all stakeholders of
the Company to report genuine concerns (about unethical
behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or violation of the Code)
and provides for adequate safeguards against victimisation of
persons who use such mechanism and makes provision for
direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A quarterly report on the whistle-blower complaints, as
received, is placed before the Audit Committee for its review.
During the year, the Company received 147 whistle-blower
complaints, out of which 132 complaints were investigated
and appropriate actions were taken and investigations were
underway for the remaining 15 complaints.

The Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, 2013
The Company has Zero Tolerance towards sexual harassment
at the workplace. A detailed POSH Policy is in place as per
the requirements of The Sexual Harassment of Women
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act,
2013 (“Act”). The POSH Policy of the Company is available

74

on the website of the Company and can be accessed in the
Governance section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. All employees
(permanent, contractual, temporary, trainees) as defined under
the Act are covered in this Policy. The POSH Policy is gender
inclusive and the framework ensures complete anonymity and
confidentiality, the details of which may be referred to in the
Board’s Report.
Internal Complaints Committees (“ICC”) have been constituted
to redress complaints of sexual harassment and the Company
has complied with the provisions relating to the constitution of
ICC under the Act. While maintaining the highest governance
norms, ICC are constituted for various locations. Half of the
total members of the ICC are women. The external members
with requisite experience in handling such matters are
also part of the ICC. The ICC is presided over by a senior
woman employee in each case. Inquiries are conducted and
recommendations are made by the ICC at the respective
locations. The ICC is updated on judicial trends and trained
regularly on the nuances of the Act.
During the fiscal year under review, 9 complaints alleging
sexual harassment were filed and 9 were resolved vide
taking appropriate actions as per the provisions of the Act.
No complaints are pending inquiry as of 31st March, 2023.
Continuous awareness in this area has been created vide
the POSH campaign reiterating Mahindra’s commitment to
providing a safe workplace to all its employees. During the year,
the Company organised sensitization and awareness programs
vide inductions for new joiners, e-learning modules for all
employees, trainees, associates including sending emailers,
creating standees and posters to sensitise all employees to
conduct themselves in a professional manner. Further, virtual
and classroom training sessions were conducted by the
Company’s Ethics Counsellors. The Company also organised
offline leadership conversations on gender sensitisation and
employee interactive sessions including conscious inclusions.

Business Responsibility and Sustainability
Report
SEBI vide its Notification dated 5th May, 2021 had amended
Regulation 34 of the Listing Regulations, wherein SEBI has
mandated that Business Responsibility Report (“BRR”) shall be
discontinued after the Financial Year 2021–22 and thereafter,
with effect from the Financial Year 2022–23, the Top 1,000
listed entities based on market capitalization shall submit a
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) in
the format as specified by SEBI from time to time.

75

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

The Company has prepared the BRSR for the Financial Year
2022–23 in accordance with the format as prescribed in the
SEBI Circular dated 10th May, 2021.
The BRSR is intended towards having quantitative and
standardized disclosures on ESG parameters to enable
comparability across companies, sectors and time. Such
disclosures will be helpful for investors to make better
investment decisions. The BRSR shall also enable companies
to engage more meaningfully with their stakeholders, by
encouraging them to look beyond financials and towards
social and environmental impacts.
The BRSR of your Company for the Financial Year 2022-23
forms part of this Annual Report as required under Regulation
34(2)(f) of the Listing Regulations.
Your Company strongly believes that sustainable and inclusive
growth is possible by using the levers of environmental
and social responsibility while setting aspirational targets
and improving economic performance to ensure business
continuity and rapid growth.
Your Company is committed to leverage ‘Alternative Thinking’
to build competitive advantage in achieving high shareholder
returns through customer centricity, innovation, good
governance and inclusive human development while being
sensitive to the environment.

Risk Management
Your Company has a well-deﬁned risk management framework
in place. The risk management framework works at various
levels across the enterprise. These levels form the strategic
defence cover of the Company’s risk management. The
Company has a robust organizational structure for managing
and reporting on risks.
Your Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee
of the Board which is authorized to monitor and review risk
management plan and risk certiﬁcate. The Committee is also
empowered, inter alia, to review and recommend to the Board
modiﬁcations to the Risk Management Policy. Further, the
Board has constituted a Corporate Risk Council comprising
the Senior Executives of the Company. The terms of reference
of the Council include review of risks and Risk Management
Policy at periodic intervals.
Your Company has developed and implemented a Risk
Management Policy which is approved by the Board. The Risk
Management Policy, inter alia, includes identiﬁcation of risks,

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

including cyber security and related risks and also those which
in the opinion of the Board may threaten the existence of
the Company. Risk management process has been established
across the Company and is designed to identify, assess and
frame a response to threats that affect the achievement of
its objectives. Further, it is embedded across all the major
functions and revolves around the goals and objectives of the
organization.

M.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
“Challenge conventional thinking and innovatively use all our
resources to drive positive change in the lives of our stakeholders
and communities across the world, to enable them to RISE.”
Aligned with the above stated core purpose, for more than
75 years, your Company has been at the forefront of helping
people RISE through impactful CSR projects that have
addressed critical issues of our time. CSR for a business
includes being responsible for its business processes and
products, and engaging in accountable relationships with its
employees, customers, and the community. Your Company has
built its reputation as a good corporate citizen by not only
doing good business, but also by driving positive change in
society. For your Company, CSR is not only about adhering to
statutory and legal compliances but also creating social and
environmental value for its stakeholders thus contributing to
build an equal and future-ready nation.
Your Company has a vibrant CSR portfolio that primarily
serves the constituencies of girls and women and supports
the environment through a massive tree plantation drive. It has
delved into the tenets of Environment, Social and Governance
(ESG) and has approached business conscientiously through
sustainable and inclusive projects. For the Financial Year
2022-2023, your Company continued to focus on investing
in girls, women, and tree plantations through high standard
projects in the domains of education, skill development, and
environment. This year your Company made special efforts in
supporting women in rural as well as urban areas of India.
Significant partnerships and strategies led to leveraging
expertise and resources leading to greater social impact. As
a thought leader and a pioneer in CSR, your Company has
invested in transformational collaborations thereby enabling
and empowering many more girls, women and farmers across
the country to RISE.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

The impact of some of the CSR projects your Company
invested in for the Financial Year 2022-2023 are shown below:
–	
Project Nanhi Kali supported the education of 1,86,041
underprivileged girls through 7,674 Academic Support
Centres across 22 Districts in 9 States of India. Of these,
your Company continued to support 52,658 girls, which
includes an additional 14,562 girls enrolled in FY 22-23,
while the Mahindra Group in total supported 85,778 girls.
Given the high dropout rates and learning gaps amongst
teenage girls in India, Project Nanhi Kali also introduced
training programmes in Life Skills and Digital Skills to
empower underprivileged girls in this age group. Over
31,908 additional girls were trained under these initiatives
across 2 states. Of these, the Mahindra Group supported
25,600 girls which included 15,000 girls supported by
the Company.
–	
Mahindra Pride Classrooms: Mahindra Pride Classrooms
continued to enhance employability skills of women
through Mahindra Pride Classrooms conducted in
Government colleges, ITIs and Polytechnic Institutes across
19 states in India. In FY23, the Mahindra Pride Classroom
intervention transformed from a youth focussed initiative
to a 100% women beneficiary programme and supported
skills enhancement of 1,66,666 women in 1,697
colleges. Out of the total women, 1,03,699 women were
supported through your Company. The programme also
supported 1,256 men, leading to a total beneficiary count
of 1,67,922 supported by Mahindra Group.
–	
Women based farm livelihood: PRERNA Under Prerna
intervention, your Company continued to support
11,111 women farmers by training them in effective
farming practices and advisory services including soil
health, access to gender friendly farm equipment, linkages
to Government welfare support initiatives, resource
efficient agriculture methodologies, and increasing crop
productivity. The intervention was undertaken across
6 states with predominant focus on rural community.
–	
Women Economic Empowerment through Regenerative
Agriculture: The main objective of the programme was to
enable women farmers to use regenerative agriculture as
a technique to transform the soil on their land, increase
productivity and earn profits throughout the year, in
addition to ensuring food and nutrition security for their
families. Through this project sponsored by your Company,
45,529 women farmers from Moga, Tarn Taran (Punjab),

76

Shravasti (UP) and Wardha (Maharashtra) were provided
knowledge in regenerative organic farming practice.
This intervention helped women farmers reduce their
agriculture input cost and increase income from sale of
crops.
–	
Women Economic Empowerment in ITES and Apparel
Sector: In alignment to your Company’s commitment to
Women’s Empowerment, new pilot projects were initiated
to skill and provide employment opportunities for women
in ITES and Apparel Sector. The objective of these pilots
was to explore the potential job opportunities for women
in these Sectors. Under this initiative, 7,076 women have
been trained in the respective domain skills in the States
of Telangana and Tamil Nadu, of these 6,232 women were
trained by your Company.
–	
Project Hariyali aims to increase the green cover, arrest
the rising ecological imbalance, protect the biodiversity
and in the process support the livelihood of marginalized
farmers. Through this intervention, the Mahindra Group
planted 2.21 million trees in FY23. Your Company
contributed towards plantation of 1.59 million trees, out of
which 1.31 million trees were planted in the Araku Valley,
which besides greening the environment also provided
livelihood support to 3,275 tribal farmer families. Project
Hariyali has been further extended in Northern India in
the States of HP, UP and Punjab. With the plantation of
more than 19 varieties of fruit, forest and shade trees,
farmers are ensured a diversified source of income from
these species of saplings planted. The farmers have
been trained in global organic farming protocols which
rejuvenate the soil, increase water retention and soil
organic carbon. To date, 22.86 million trees have been
planted through Mahindra Hariyali, of which 14.90 million
trees have been planted in Araku which supports the
livelihood of 26,000 tribal farmer families.
–	
Water Conservation: Your Company continued its efforts
on Watershed Development Fund (WDF) and Climate
Change Adaptation (CCA) Projects with NABARD in two
locations:- (1) At Hatta, District Damoh, Madhya Pradesh
for developing National Priority Areas of Aspirational
District (2) Development of River Basin in Igatpuri Block,
Nashik District, Maharashtra covering 34 villages with
land area of 18,000 hectares. During FY23, your Company
supported 7,939 farmers through various interventions
of soil and water conservation works, crop diversification
measures, livelihood training / support and drudgery

77

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

reduction initiatives for Integrated Development of the
rural catchment. Besides this, 5 States were covered
under region specific water initiatives to cover 19,446
beneficiaries cumulatively.
–	
Employee Volunteering: Mahindra Group has a robust
volunteering programme through the Employee Social
Options (Esops) and MySeva platforms. While Esops
programme is organised by the Mahindra Group, MySeva
recognizes

individual

acts

of

Social

Responsibility

undertaken by Mahindra group employees. Through these
employee volunteering platforms 55,873 employees
invested 4,53,884.50 person hours of their personal time
in numerous volunteering activities. Of these, 10,587
were employees of the Company who contributed
55,272 person hours towards a variety of social causes.
At the group level, 1,46,721 person hours were invested
through individual acts of Social Responsibility and the
balance 3,07,163.50 person hours were contributed
through Esops. A major development has been declaration
of 5th December as “Mahindra Volunteering Day”. The
very first Mahindra Volunteering Day celebrated on
5th December, 2022 had 9,301 employees contributing
26,944 person hours.
During the Financial Year 2022-23, your Company was
humbled to receive following awards for its contribution to
the society:
1.	Honorable Mention - Skill Development and Livelihood
Category – National CSR Awards 2020 by Ministry of
Corporate Affairs (Announced in August 2022)
2.	Telangana State Industry Award – Silver Category for best
CSR practice- Covid relief (March 2023)
3.	Global CSR Excellence & Leadership Award 2023 – Winner
in the ‘Women Empowerment’ Category (February 2023)
4.	Best CSR Initiative “Project Pani” by ITOTY Awards
(July 2022)
5.	UBS Forum CSR Excellence Award 2022 for Community
Health Project (November 2022)
6.	CSR Times Award for Water Conservation Project
(December 2022)
7.	Best CSR Contribution Certificate by Government of
Punjab (January 2023)

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

CSR Policy
The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee had formulated
and recommended to the Board, a Corporate Social
Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy) which was subsequently
adopted by it and is being implemented by the Company.
The CSR Policy including a brief overview of the projects or
programs undertaken by the Company can be accessed in the
Governance section at the web-link: https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.

CSR Committee
The CSR Committee comprises of Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
(Chairperson), Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Dr. Anish Shah, Mr. Vikram
Singh Mehta and Mr. Muthiah Murugappan.
The Committee, inter alia, reviews and monitors the CSR as well
as Business Responsibility and Sustainability activities.
The scope of the Committee was enhanced during the year by
including in its Charter Environment, Social and Governance (ESG)
related matters, the details of which are furnished in the Report
on Corporate Governance that forms part of this Annual Report.
During the year under review, your Company spent
Rs. 92.28 crores on CSR activities. The amount equal to 2% of
the average net proﬁt for the past three ﬁnancial years required
to be spent on CSR activities was Rs. 91.87 crores. The Board
has considered the Impact Assessment Reports at its meeting
held on 26th May, 2023. The detailed Annual Report on the CSR
activities undertaken by your Company in the Financial Year
2023 along with the Executive Summary for Impact Assessment
Reports of the applicable projects, is annexed herewith and
marked as Annexure VI.
The complete Impact Assessment Reports of the
applicable projects can be accessed at the Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY23/AnnualReport.zip.

Sustainability
During the year under review, the 15th Sustainability Report
for the year 2021-22 was released. The Report was externally
assured by KPMG and prepared in accordance with the GRI
Standards - Core option.
The Company plans to build a ‘Planet Positive Mahindra’ by
focusing on three key pillars, greening ourselves, decarbonizing
the industry and rejuvenating nature. Under pillar greening
ourselves, the Company focuses on enhancing use of renewable
energy, improving energy and water productivity, embedding

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

material circularity and ensuring no waste goes to landfill. To
decarbonize the industry, transition to electric vehicles and
alternate fuels, enabling supply chain to follow environment
friendly practices and end of vehicle recycling are major
considered aspects. Beyond the industry boundary, to rejuvenate
nature, the Company aims regenerative farming, planting over
million trees every year, investing in green technologies like
solar, green buildings and micro irrigation.
ESG information of the Company has been disclosed under
Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure Project
(CDP) and World Economic Forum’s (WEF) stakeholder capitalism
metrics.
Your Company has committed to Science Based Target, an
initiative to restrict average global temperature rise in alignment
of Paris Climate Change Agreement. The Mahindra Group is
committed to become Carbon Neutral by 2040.

78

N. SECRETARIAL
Share Capital
During the year under review, the Authorised Share Capital of
the Company stood increased to Rs. 11,681.5 crores divided
into 2031,30,00,000 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each
and 25,00,000 Unclassified shares of Rs. 100 each and
150,00,00,000 Preference Shares of Rs. 10 each pursuant to
the Scheme of Merger by Absorption of Mahindra Engineering
and Chemical Products Limited, Retail Initiative Holdings Limited
and Mahindra Retail Limited with the Company becoming
effective from 29th April, 2022.
The Authorised Share Capital of the Company further stands
increased to Rs. 12,681.5 crores divided into 2231,30,00,000
Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each and 25,00,000 Unclassified

Senior leadership of the Company participated in various
engagement programs like SEBI Advisory Committee on
BRSR, Circular Economy Symposium by FICCI and WEF CEO
Climate Alliance.

shares of Rs. 100 each and 150,00,00,000 Preference Shares of

The Sustainability performance for your Company for the
Financial Year 2022-23 will be elaborated in detail in the
GRI Report which is under preparation and will be ready for
release shortly.

effective on 2nd February, 2023.

Your Company was recognized for its leadership position on the
ESG dimensions during the year under review, by way of the
following:
●	Only Automobile Company globally disclosing Core &
Expanded metrics as per WEF’s Stakeholder Capitalism
Metrics during the year 2022.

Rs. 10 each pursuant to the Scheme of Merger by Absorption
of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (“MEML”) with the Company
and their respective shareholders (“MEML Scheme”) becoming
The issued, subscribed and paid-up Share Capital of the
Company was increased from Rs. 621.60 crores comprising
of 124,31,92,544 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each fully
paid-up to Rs. 621.76 crores divided into 124,35,28,831
Ordinary (Equity) shares of Rs. 5 each upon allotment
of 3,36,287 Ordinary (Equity) shares of Rs. 5 each to the
shareholders of MEML on 23rd February, 2023 pursuant to
the MEML Scheme.

●	Part of Dow Jones Sustainability World & Emerging Market
Indices, for the 2nd consecutive year thereby being the only
Indian automobile company to do so.

Compliance with the provisions of Secretarial
Standard 1 and Secretarial Standard 2

●	Felicitated by CDP as Supplier Engagement Leader for the
year 2022.

relating to ‘Meetings of the Board of Directors’ and

●	Inclusion in S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook 2023.

Conservation
of
Energy,
Technology
Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings
and Outgo
The information pertaining to conservation of energy, technology
absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo as required
under section 134(3)(m) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with
Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is attached
as Annexure VII and forms part of this Report.

The applicable Secretarial Standards, i.e. SS-1 and SS‑2,
‘General Meetings’ respectively, have been duly complied by
your Company.

Annual Return
Pursuant to section 134(3)(a) and section 92(3) of the
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 12(1) of the Companies
(Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, a copy of the
Annual Return is placed on the website of the Company and
can be accessed at https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY23/
AnnualReport.zip.

79

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

O. POLICIES
The details of the Key Policies adopted by the Company are
mentioned at Annexure VIII to the Board’s Report.

P.	
PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE INSOLVENCY AND
BANKRUPTCY CODE, 2016 (31 OF 2016)
There were two proceedings initiated / pending against your
Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
which do not materially impact the business of the Company.
While in one case the Company has filed its detailed reply and
the matter is pending for final hearing, the other matter is still
under objection.

Q. GENERAL
Neither the Managing Director nor the Executive Director
received any remuneration or commission from any of the
subsidiaries of your Company.
Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is required
in respect of the following items as there were no transactions /
events on these items during the year under review:

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

3.	Signiﬁcant or material orders passed by the Regulators or
Courts or Tribunals which impact the going concern status
and the Company’s operation in future.
4.	Voting rights which are not directly exercised by the
employees in respect of shares for the subscription /
purchase of which loan was given by the Company
(as there is no scheme pursuant to which such persons
can beneﬁcially hold shares as envisaged under
section 67(3)(c) of the Companies Act, 2013).
5.	There has been no change in the nature of business of your
Company.
6.	The Company has not made any one-time settlement for
loans taken from the Banks or Financial Institutions, and
hence the details of difference between amount of the
valuation done at the time of one time settlement and
the valuation done while taking loan from the Banks or
Financial Institutions along with the reasons thereof is not
applicable.
7.	There was no revision of financial statements and Board’s
Report of the Company during the year under review.

1.	Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to dividend,
voting or otherwise.

For and on behalf of the Board

2.	Issue of Shares (including Sweat Equity Shares) to
employees of the Company under any Scheme save and
except Employees Stock Option Schemes (ESOS) referred
to in this Report.

ANAND G. MAHINDRA
Chairman
DIN: 00004695
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

80

ANNEXURE I
Dividend Distribution Policy
The Dividend Distribution Policy (“the policy”) establishes the principles to ascertain amounts that can be distributed to equity
shareholders as dividend by the Company as well as enable the Company strike balance between pay-out and retained earnings,
in order to address future needs of the Company. The policy shall come into force for accounting periods beginning from
1st April, 2016.
Dividend would continue to be declared on per share basis on the Ordinary Equity Shares of the Company having face value
Rs. 5 each. The Company currently has no other class of shares. Therefore, dividend declared will be distributed amongst all
shareholders, based on their shareholding on the record date.
Dividends will generally be recommended by the Board once a year, after the announcement of the full year results and before
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the shareholders, as may be permitted by the Companies Act. The Board may also declare
interim dividends as may be permitted by the Companies Act.
The Company has had a consistent dividend policy that balances the objective of appropriately rewarding shareholders through
dividends and to support the future growth.
As in the past, subject to the provisions of the applicable law, the Company’s dividend payout will be determined based on
available ﬁnancial resources, investment requirements and taking into account optimal shareholder return. Within these
parameters, the Company would endeavor to maintain a total dividend pay-out ratio in the range of 20% to 35% of the annual
standalone Proﬁts after Tax (PAT) of the Company.
While determining the nature and quantum of the dividend payout, including amending the suggested payout range as above,
the Board would take into account the following factors:
●

Internal Factors:
i.

Profitable growth of the Company and specifically, profits earned during the financial year as compared with:

		

a.

Previous years and

		

b.

Internal budgets,

ii.

Cash flow position of the Company,

iii.

Accumulated reserves,

iv.

Earnings stability,

v.

Future cash requirements for organic growth/expansion and/or for inorganic growth,

vi. Brand acquisitions,
vii. Current and future leverage and, under exceptional circumstances, the amount of contingent liabilities,
viii. Deployment of funds in short term marketable investments,
ix. Long term investments,
x.

Capital expenditure(s), and

xi. The ratio of debt to equity (at net debt and gross debt level).
●

External Factors:
i.

Business cycles,

ii.

Economic environment,

iii.

Cost of external financing,

iv.

Applicable taxes including tax on dividend,

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

81

v.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Industry outlook for the future years,

vi. Inflation rate, and
vii. Changes in the Government policies, industry specific rulings & regulatory provisions.
Apart from the above, the Board also considers past dividend history and sense of shareholders’ expectations while determining
the rate of dividend. The Board may additionally recommend special dividend in special circumstances.
The Board may consider not declaring dividend or may recommend a lower payout for a given ﬁnancial year, after analyzing the
prospective opportunities and threats or in the event of challenging circumstances such as regulatory and ﬁnancial environment.
In such event, the Board will provide rationale in the Annual Report.
The retained earnings of the Company may be used in any of the following ways:
i.

Capital expenditure for working capital,

ii.

Organic and/or inorganic growth,

iii.

Investment in new business(es) and/or additional investment in existing business(es),

iv.

Declaration of dividend,

v.

Capitalisation of shares,

vi. Buy back of shares,
vii. General corporate purposes, including contingencies,
viii. Correcting the capital structure,
ix. Any other permitted usage as per the Companies Act, 2013.
Information on dividends paid in the last 10 years is provided in the Annual Report.
This policy may be reviewed periodically by the Board. Any changes or revisions to the policy will be communicated to
shareholders in a timely manner.
The policy will be available on the Company’s website and the link to the policy is: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/investorreports/FY17/Governance/MM-Dividend-Distribution-Policy-29-9-2016-Final.pdf
The policy will also be disclosed in the Company’s annual report.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

82

ANNEXURE II
Form No. AOC–2
(Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred
to in sub-section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arms length transactions under third
proviso thereto
1.

Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arms length basis—

	There were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the year ended 31st March, 2023, which were
not at arms length basis.
2.

Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arms length basis—

	There were no material contracts or arrangements or transactions for the year ended 31st March, 2023 as per the provisions
of the Companies Act, 2013. Thus this disclosure is not applicable.

For and on behalf of the Board
ANAND G. MAHINDRA
Chairman
DIN: 00004695
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

83

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

ANNEXURE III
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the financial year ended 31st March, 2023
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
To,
The Members,
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building
Apollo Bunder
Mumbai 400001
I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to
good corporate practices by Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis
for evaluating the corporate conduct/statutory compliances
and expressing my opinion thereon.
Auditor’s Responsibility:
My responsibility is to express an opinion on the compliance
of the applicable laws and maintenance of records based
on audit. I have conducted the audit in accordance with
the applicable Auditing Standards issued by The Institute of
Company Secretaries of India. The Auditing Standards requires
that the Auditor shall comply with statutory and regulatory
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about compliance with applicable laws
and maintenance of records.

the audit period covering the financial year ended on
31st March, 2023, complied with the statutory provisions
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper
Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the
extent, in the manner and as reported hereinafter.
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company
for the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according
to the provisions of:
(i)	The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules made
thereunder;
(ii)	The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’)
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of
foreign direct investment, overseas direct investment
and external commercial borrowings;
(v)	The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act,
1992 (‘SEBI Act’):

Due to the inherent limitations of audit including internal,
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable
risk that some material misstatements or material noncompliances may not be detected, even though the audit
is properly planned and performed in accordance with the
Standards.

(a)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Regulations, 2011;

Unmodified opinion:

(c)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2018 (Not applicable to the Company during the Audit
period);

Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers,
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
maintained by the Company and also the information
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit,
I hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during

(b)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;

(d)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity shares)
Regulations, 2021;

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

(e)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations,
2021;
(f)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and
dealing with client;
(g)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021 (Not applicable
to the Company during the Audit period); and
(h)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback
of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable to
the Company during the Audit period).
I further report that having regard to the compliance system
prevailing in the Company and on examination of the relevant
documents and records in pursuance thereof, the Company
has complied with the following law applicable specifically to
the Company:
The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and the Rules made
thereunder.
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses
of the following:
(i)	Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company
Secretaries of India;
(ii)	Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with
BSE Ltd. and the National Stock Exchange of India
Ltd. read with The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015.
During the period under review the Company has complied
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
Standards, etc. mentioned above.

84

I further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive
Directors and Independent Directors. No change in the
composition of the Directors took place during the period
under review.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at
least seven days in advance (except meetings convened at a
shorter notice) and a system exists for seeking and obtaining
further information and clarifications on the agenda items
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the
meeting.
As per the minutes of the meetings, duly recorded and
signed by the Chairman, the decisions of the Board and its
committees were unanimous.
I further report that there are adequate systems and
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period, the Merger by
Absorption of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited with the
Company and their respective shareholders stood completed
and became effective on 2 February 2023.

		

Sachin Bhagwat

		

ACS: 10189

		

CP: 6029

Place: Pune
Date: 26th May, 2023

UDIN: A010189E000383749
PR No.: 654/2020

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

85

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

ANNEXURE IV
Secretarial compliance report of Mahindra and Mahindra Limited for the financial year ended March 31, 2023

To,

for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023 (“Review Period”) in
respect of compliance with the provisions of:

The Board of Directors
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited

a)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
(“SEBI Act”) and the Regulations, circulars, guidelines
issued thereunder; and

Gateway Building,
Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai 400001
I have conducted the review of the compliance of the applicable
statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate
practices by Mahindra and Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred
as ‘the listed entity’), having its Registered Office at Gateway
Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai 400001. Secretarial Review was
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for
evaluating the corporate conduct / statutory compliances and to
provide my observations thereon.

b)	The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (“SCRA”),
rules made thereunder and the Regulations, circulars,
guidelines issued thereunder by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”);
The specific Regulations, whose provisions and the circulars/
guidelines issued thereunder, have been examined, include:a)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015;
b)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018 (Not
applicable to the listed entity during the Review Period);

Based on my verification of the listed entity’s books, papers, minutes
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by
the listed entity and also the information provided by the listed
entity, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during
the conduct of Secretarial Review, I hereby report that the listed
entity has during the review period covering the financial year
ended on March 31, 2023, complied with the statutory provisions
listed hereunder in the manner and as reported hereinafter:

c)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
d)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of
Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not applicable to the listed
entity during the Review Period);
e)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;

I have examined:
a)	All the documents and records made available to me
and explanation provided by the listed entity,

f)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing
of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 2021;

b)	The filings/submissions made by the listed entity to the
stock exchanges,
c)

Website of the listed entity,

d)	Any other document/filing, as may be relevant, which
has been relied upon to make this report

I.

g)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
h)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and
Participants) Regulations, 2018 to the extent applicable.
and based on the above examination, I hereby report that during
the Review Period:

(a)	The listed entity has complied with the provisions of the above Regulations and circulars / guidelines issued thereunder except,
in respect of matters specified below:
Compliance
Requirement

Regulation/
Circular

Deviations

Action taken Type of action
by

Details of
violations

Not applicable

Fine Amount

Observations/ Management
response
Remarks of
the Practicing
Company
Secretary

Remarks

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

86

(b)	The listed entity has taken the following actions to comply with the observations made in previous reports:
Compliance
Requirement

Regulation/
Circular

Deviations

Action taken Type of action
by

Details of
violations

Fine Amount

Observations/ Management
response
Remarks of
the Practicing
Company
Secretary

Remarks

Not applicable

II.	Compliances related to the resignation of statutory auditors from the listed entity and its material subsidiaries as per SEBI circular
CIR/CFD/CMD1/114/2019 dated 18 October, 2019:
Sr.
No.

Particulars

1.

Compliances with the following conditions while appointing/re-appointing an auditor
i.	If the auditor has resigned within 45 days from the end of a quarter of a
financial year, the auditor before such resignation, has issued the limited
review/ audit report for such quarter; or

Compliance Status Observations / remarks by PCS
(Yes/No/NA)

NA

ii.	If the auditor has resigned after 45 days from the end of a quarter of a
financial year, the auditor before such resignation, has issued the limited
review/ audit report for such quarter as well as the next quarter; or
iii.	If the auditor has signed the limited review/ audit report for the first three
quarters of a financial year, the auditor before such resignation, has issued
the limited review/ audit report for the last quarter of such financial year
as well as the audit report for such financial year.
2.

So far as re-appointment of Statutory
auditor is concerned, the listed entity
re-appointed B S R & Co, LLP Chartered
Accountants as Statutory Auditors
during the Review Period. The conditions
stipulated in the above referred SEBI
Circular have been included in the terms
of appointment.
The Statutory auditor did not resign during
the Review Period.

Other conditions relating to resignation of statutory auditor
i.	Reporting of concerns by Auditor with respect to the listed entity/its
material subsidiary to the Audit Committee:

NA

Please refer to observation at Sr. No. 1
above

NA

Please refer to observation at Sr. No. 1
above

NA

The Statutory auditor did not resign
during the Review Period.

a.	In case of any concern with the management of the listed entity/material
subsidiary such as non-availability of information / non-cooperation by
the management which has hampered the audit process, the auditor has
approached the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the listed entity and
the Audit Committee shall receive such concern directly and immediately
without specifically waiting for the quarterly Audit Committee meetings.
b.	In case the auditor proposes to resign, all concerns with respect to the
proposed resignation, along with relevant documents has been brought to
the notice of the Audit Committee. In cases where the proposed resignation
is due to non-receipt of information / explanation from the company,
the auditor shall inform the Audit Committee the details of information/
explanation sought and not provided by the management, as applicable.
c.	The Audit Committee / Board of Directors, as the case may be, shall
deliberate on the matter on receipt of such information from the auditor
relating to the proposal to resign as mentioned above and communicate its
views to the management and the auditor.
ii.	Disclaimer in case of non-receipt of information:
	The auditor has provided an appropriate disclaimer in its audit report, which
is in accordance with the Standards of Auditing as specified by ICAI / NFRA,
in case where the listed entity/ its material subsidiary has not provided
information as required by the auditor.
3.

The listed entity / its material subsidiary has obtained information from the
Auditor upon resignation, in the format as specified in Annexure- A in SEBI
Circular CIR/CFD/CMD1/114/2019 dated 18th October, 2019.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

87

III.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Particulars

3.

4.

—

All applicable policies under SEBI Regulations are adopted with the approval of board
of directors of the listed entity.

Yes

—

All the policies are in conformity with SEBI Regulations and have been reviewed and
updated on time, as per the regulations/circulars/guidelines issued by SEBI.

Yes

—

The Listed entity is maintaining a functional website;

Yes

—

Timely dissemination of the documents/ information under a separate section on the
website;

Yes

—

Web-links provided in Annual Corporate Governance Reports under Regulation 27(2)
are accurate and specific which re- directs to the relevant document(s)/ section of the
website.

Yes

—

Yes

—

Yes

—

Yes

—

Yes

—

Yes

—

a)	The listed entity has obtained prior approval of Audit Committee for all related
party transactions; or

(a) Yes

—

b)	The listed entity has provided detailed reasons along with confirmation whether
the transactions were subsequently approved/ ratified/rejected by the Audit
Committee, in case no prior approval has been obtained.

(b) NA

Adoption and timely updating of the Policies:

Maintenance and disclosures on Website:

Disqualification of Director:

Details related to Subsidiaries of listed entity have been examined w.r.t.:
(a)

Identification of material subsidiary companies;

(b)	Disclosure requirement of material as well as other subsidiaries.
6.

Preservation of Documents:
The listed entity is preserving and maintaining records as prescribed under SEBI
Regulations and disposal of records as per Policy of Preservation of Documents and
Archival policy prescribed under SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015.

7.

Performance Evaluation:
The listed entity has conducted performance evaluation of the Board, Independent
Directors and the Committees on an annual basis as prescribed in SEBI Regulations.

8.

9.

Compliance Status Observations / remarks by PCS
(Yes/No/NA)

Yes

None of the Director(s) of the listed entity is disqualified under Section 164 of
Companies Act, 2013
5.

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Secretarial Standards:
The compliances of the listed entity are in accordance with the applicable Secretarial
Standards (SS) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), as notified
by the Central Government under section 118(10) of the Companies Act, 2013 and
mandatorily applicable.

2.

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

I hereby report that, during the Review Period, the compliance status of the listed entity is appended as below:

Sr.
No.

1.

BOARD’S
REPORT

Related Party Transactions:

Please refer to point No. 8(a)

Disclosure of events or information:
The listed entity has provided all the required disclosure(s) under Regulation 30 along
with Schedule III of SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015 within the time limits prescribed
thereunder.

Yes

—

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Sr.
No.

10.

Particulars

Yes

—

Yes

—

NA

No non-compliance was observed.

Actions taken by SEBI or Stock Exchange(s), if any:
No action(s) has been taken against the listed entity/ its promoters/ directors/
subsidiaries either by SEBI or by Stock Exchanges (including under the Standard
Operating Procedures issued by SEBI through various circulars) under SEBI Regulations
and circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder.

12.

Compliance Status Observations / remarks by PCS
(Yes/No/NA)

Prohibition of Insider Trading:
The listed entity is in compliance with Regulation 3(5) & 3(6) of SEBI (Prohibition of
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.

11.

88

Additional Non-compliances, if any:
No additional non-compliance observed for any SEBI regulation/ circular/guidance note
etc.

Assumptions & Limitation of scope and Review:
1.	Compliance of the applicable laws and ensuring the authenticity of documents and information furnished, are the responsibilities
of the management of the listed entity.
2.	My responsibility is to report based upon my examination of relevant documents and information. This is neither an audit nor an
expression of opinion.
3.

I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial Records and Books of Accounts of the listed entity.

4.	This Report is solely for the intended purpose of compliance in terms of Regulation 24A (2) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the listed entity nor of the
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the listed entity.

		
		
		
Place: Pune
Date: 25th May, 2023

Sachin Bhagwat
ACS No.: 10189
C. P. No.: 6029
UDIN: A010189E000372606
PR No.: 654/2020

89

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

ANNEXURE V
DETAILS OF REMUNERATION
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under section 197(12) read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
The remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, percentage increase in their remuneration
during the Financial Year 2022-23 and ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees
of the Company for the Financial Year 2022-23 are as under:
Rs. in crs
Sr.
No.

Name of Director/KMP

Designation

Remuneration
of Director/
KMP for the
Financial Year
2022-23
(Rs. in crores)
(Excluding
perquisite
value of
ESOPs
exercised)

Remuneration
of Director/
KMP for the
Financial Year
2022-23
(Rs. in crores)
(Including
perquisite
value of
ESOPs
exercised)

% increase in
Remuneration
in the
Financial Year
2022-23
(Excluding
perquisite
value of
ESOPs
exercised)

1.

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra#

2.

Chairman

5.14€

5.14€

-50.15%@

-50.15%@

50.39

Dr. Anish Shah

Managing Director and
CEO

12.47

16.44

34.81%

38.27%

161.18

3.

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

Executive Director and
CEO (Auto and Farm
Sector)

9.73

12.74

35.33%

30.94%

124.90

4.

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta#

Independent Director

0.67

0.67

17.54%

17.54%

6.57

5.

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai#

Independent Director

0.56

0.56

21.74%

-16.42%

5.49

6.

Mr. T. N. Manoharan#

Independent Director

0.62

0.62

24.00%

24.00%

6.08

7.

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
(Nominee of LIC)$#

Nominee Director

0.48

0.48

23.08%

23.08%

4.71

8.

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan# *

Independent Director

0.64

0.64

20.75%

20.75%

6.27

9.

Ms. Shikha Sharma

Independent Director

0.58

0.58

18.37%

18.37%

5.69

10.

Ms. Nisaba Godrej#

Independent Director

0.49

0.49

28.95%

28.95%

4.80

11.

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan#

Independent Director

0.50

0.50

31.58%

31.58%

4.90

12.

Mr. CP Gurnani**

Non-Executive Director

—

—

—

—

—

13.

Mr. Manoj Bhat

Group Chief
Officer

5.67

5.67

21.67%

21.67%

—

14.

Mr. Narayan Shankar

Company Secretary

2.05

2.05

8.47%

-20.54%

—

#

Financial

% increase in
Ratio of
Remuneration Remuneration
in the
of each
Financial Year
Director
2022-23
to median
(Including remuneration
perquisite
(Including
value of
perquisite
ESOPs
value of
exercised)
ESOPs
exercised) of
employees for
the Financial
Year 2022-23

#	The remuneration includes sitting fees and commission.
€	In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme.
@	Calculated basis the remuneration drawn by Mr. Anand G. Mahindra during the Financial Year 2021-22 including that as an Executive Chairman. He transitioned
to the role of Non‑Executive Chairman of the Company w.e.f. 12th November, 2021.
$	Commission was paid / is payable to Life Insurance Corporation of India.
*
Sitting fees / Commission were paid / are payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a Partner.
**
Mr. CP Gurnani has waived his right to receive sitting fees / remuneration during his tenure as a Non‑Executive Director of the Company.
Note: All amounts are rounded off.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

I.	The ratio of the remuneration of each director to
the median remuneration of the employees of the
company for the Financial Year:
	The median remuneration of employees of the Company
during the Financial Year was Rs. 10.20 lakhs and ratio
of the remuneration of each Director to the median
remuneration of the employees of the Company for the
Financial Year is provided in the above table.
II.	The percentage increase in the median remuneration
of employees:
	In the Financial Year, there was an increase of 17.24% in
the median remuneration of employees.
III.	The number of permanent employees on the rolls of
Company:
	There were 23,495 permanent employees on the rolls of
the Company as on 31st March, 2023.
IV.	
Average percentile increase already made in the
salaries of employees other than the managerial
personnel in the last Financial Year and its comparison
with the percentile increase in the managerial
remuneration and justiﬁcation thereof and point
out if there are any exceptional circumstances for
increase in the managerial remuneration:

90

	Average percentage increase made in the salaries of
employees other than the managerial personnel in
the Financial Year i.e. 2022-23 was 6.20% whereas
the increase in the managerial remuneration for the
Financial Year 2022-23 was 27.86%.
	The remuneration of the Managing Director and
Executive Director is decided based on the individual
performance as well as performance of the Company,
inﬂation, prevailing industry trends and benchmarks.
	The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors consists
of commission and sitting fees. While deciding the
remuneration, various factors such as Director’s
participation in Board and Committee Meetings during
the year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as
Membership or Chairmanship of Committees, time
spent in carrying out other duties, role and functions as
envisaged in Schedule IV of the Companies Act, 2013 and
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 and such other factors as the
Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
may deem ﬁt etc. were taken into consideration.
V.	Afﬁrmation that the remuneration is as per the
remuneration policy of the company:
	It is hereby afﬁrmed that the remuneration paid is as
per the Policy for Remuneration of the Directors, Key
Managerial Personnel and other Employees.

91

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

ANNEXURE VI
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2022-23
1.

Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company

	Since its inception your Company has been a socially responsible corporate making investments in the community which
go beyond any mandatory legal and statutory requirements. In line with its core purpose, the CSR vision focusses on the
constituencies of girls, women and environment through massive tree plantation initiative. We believe that these are the
critical constituencies who contribute to nation building and through our CSR efforts, we will enable these communities to
Rise. In accordance with the Companies Act, 2013, your Company has committed 2% (Profit before Tax) annually towards
CSR initiatives. The CSR Policy of your Company outlines the approach and direction given by the Board, taking into account
the recommendations of its CSR Committee, and includes guiding principles for selection, implementation and monitoring
of CSR activities as well as formulation of the annual CSR action plan. The CSR projects undertaken are also listed in the
CSR policy.
2.

Composition of the CSR Committee:
Sr.
No.

Name of Director

Designation/
Nature of
Directorship

1.

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

Chairperson

3

3

2.

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Member

3

3

3.

Dr. Anish Shah

Member

3

3

4.

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Member

3

3

5.

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

Member

3

3

Number of
Number of
meetings of
meetings of
CSR Committee CSR Committee
held during the attended during
year
the year

3.	Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board
are disclosed on the website of the company.
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
4.	
Provide the executive summary along with web-Link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR projects carried out in
pursuance of Sub rule (3) of rule 8, if applicable
	Your Company has appointed KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP (For 15 Projects) and BlueSky Sustainable Business
LLP Limited (For Project Hariyali) to carry out independent 3rd Party Impact Assessment studies in F23 for 16 CSR projects.
The Executive summary of the projects is provided in this annexure. The web-link for all the Impact Assessment reports is
given below:https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
5.

(a) Average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135 : Rs. 4593,38,92,500.62
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub- section (5) of Section 135 : Rs. 91,86,77,850.01
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial year: NIL
(d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: NIL
(e) Total CSR Obligation for the financial year [(b) + (c) – (d)] : Rs. 91,86,77,850.01

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

6.

92

(a) 	Amount spent on CSR projects (both ongoing project and other than ongoing project): Rs. 87,43,39,576.74 (Other than
ongoing)
(b) Amount spent on administrative overheads: Rs. 3,80,71,334.93
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Rs. 1,03,54,500
(d) Total Amount spent for the financial year [(a) + (b) + (c)]: Rs. 92,27,65,411.67
(e) CSR Amount spent or unspent for the financial year:

Total Amount Spent for the
Financial Year (in Rs.)

92,27,65,411.67

Amount Unspent (in Rs.)
Total Amount transferred to
Unspent CSR Account as per
section 135(6)

Amount transferred to any fund specified under
Schedule VII as per second proviso to sub
section (5) of section 135

Amount

Date of
Transfer

Name of the
Fund

Amount

Date of
Transfer

NIL

N/A

N/A

NIL

N/A

(f) Excess amount for set-off, if any : Not Applicable
S.
No.
(1)

Particular
(2)

Amount (in Rs.)
(3)

(i)

Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section(5) of section 135

(ii)

Total amount spent for the Financial Year

(iii)

Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]

(iv)

Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial
years, if any

(v)

Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)]

7.

Details of unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial years: Not Applicable

Sl.
No.

Preceding Financial
Year

Amount
transferred to
Unspent CSR
Account under
sub section (6)
of Section 135
(in Rs.)

Balance Amount in
Unspent CSR Account
under sub section (6)
of section 135 (in Rs)

Amount spent in the
Financial Year (in Rs.)

Amount transferred to a fund
specified under Schedule VII as per
Second proviso to Sub section (5)
of section 135, if any
Amount
(In Rs)

Date of transfer

Amount
Deficiency, If any
remaining to
be spent in
succeeding
financial years.
(In Rs.)

1
2
3

8.	Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent
in the Financial Year
Yes

No

If yes, enter the Number of capital Assets created / Acquired

2

93

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

 urnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in
F
the financial year:
Sl.
No.

Short particulars of the
property or asset(s)
[including complete address
and location of the property]

(1)

(2)

Pin code of
the property
or asset(s)

Date of
creation

Amount of CSR
Spent
(in Rs.)

Details of entity/beneficiary of the registered owner

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)
CSR Registration

Name

Registered address

Mahindra Towers 17/18
Pattulous Road,
Chennai 600 002

Number, if applicable

1.

School building minor
civil works, including kids
play area equipment and
auditorium furniture

603 002

23.02.2023

1,88,80,000

CSR00009883

Mahindra World
School Educational
Trust

500 043

28.03.2023

90,00,000

CSR00001815

Mahindra Educational
Survey No 62/A,
Institutions
Bahadurpally, Jeedimetla,
Hyderabad 500 043

Total

2,78,80,000

Mahindra World School
Plot 30 2nd Avenue,
Mahindra World City,
Chengalpattu 603 002.
2.

Electrical works and High
Mast Light Fixtures
Mahindra University
Survey no 62/A,
Bahadurpally, Jeedimetla,
Hyderabad 500 043.

(All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office / Municipal Corporation /
Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9.	Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as per
sub-section (5) of section 135 – Not applicable

ANISH SHAH

VISHAKHA N. DESAI

Managing Director and CEO

Chairperson – CSR Committee

DIN: 02719429

DIN: 05292671

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

94

Executive Summary of Impact Assessment Reports
A brief outline of projects for which Impact Assessment
was carried out and the Executive Summary of Impact
Assessment Reports are given below:
1.

●	79% farmers confirmed increase in yield by
40-60%.
●	13% increase in land under pepper cultivation after
the intervention.

PROJECT HARIYALI
 roject Hariyali was launched in 2007 as an afforestation
P
initiative with a target to plant a million trees every year.
The project aims to increase the green cover, arrest the
rising ecological imbalance, protect the biodiversity and in
the process has supported the livelihood of marginalized
farmers. In 2010, the project was extended to Araku Valley,
Vishakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, and further extended to
cover the states of Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and
Punjab in Northern India in 2021. To date, 22.86 million
trees have been planted through Project Hariyali.

	The impact assessment study for plantation done in
FY 2021-22 in Araku Valley, Vishakhapatnam, was
conducted by BlueSky Sustainable Business LLP an
NABCB accredited “Type A” Inspection Body. As part of
impact assessment, Project Hariyali has been awarded
the Platinum rating. The key outcomes of the study are
as follows:
1.

Survival rate of the plants: 94.67%.

2.	97% of the respondents from the survey consisting
of 100 tribal farmers agreed that the activities
conducted by Project Hariyali led to improvement in
knowledge about Farm Management.

●	Number of farmers with annual income in the range
of INR 1-3 lakh has gone up from 2% to 20% during
the intervention period.
●	81% farmers were able to earn INR 20,000 per
month after the project intervention.
3.

	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with Maharashtra
Village Social Transformation Foundation (VSTF) in
establishing Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) in
Latur, Amravati and Chandrapur districts of Maharashtra
to strengthen the post-harvest agriculture value chains
under the project SMART. The FPOs have benefited 4,361
farmers through access to infrastructure and strong market
linkages. Interventions included building institutional
capacity to support agricultural transformation, expanding
market access, supporting enterprise growth, and building
risk mitigation mechanisms. Consultation with key
stakeholders as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes:●	Access to infrastructure has helped reduce the
wastage and post-harvest losses.
●	Enterprising activities have created direct and
indirect employment opportunities.

3.	77% respondents agreed that the intervention has
led to an improvement in the soil quality.
2.	
AGRI ENTREPRENEURSHIP – UPSKILLING PEPPER
FARMERS
	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with Naandi
Foundation to support tribal farmers in the Araku hills
of Andhra Pradesh benefiting 5,773 farmers across 175
villages. 99% of the farmers covered under this project
were from below poverty line. The project’s objective was
to enhance the profitability of the farmers by ensuring
quality pepper harvest and enabling them to become
self-sustaining and resilient. The initiative focused on
introducing improved farming practices, enhancing the
quality of produce, and establishing market linkages,
which resulted in higher incomes for the farmers and
increased interest from the younger generation in
agriculture. Consultation with key stakeholders and
beneficiaries as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes:●	99% farmers confirmed increase in yield after
adoption of improved tools and techniques.

VSTF-SMART

●	Cost of procurement, operations and harvesting has
reduced.
●
4.

Risk mitigation for volatility of prices has improved.

VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR YOUTH

	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with Pratham
Education Foundation to provide vocational training to
youth in Mohali (Punjab) and Nashik (Maharashtra). The
project bridged the skill gap and enhanced employability
skills for 615 youth in three streams-welding, electrical
and automotive. The training approach involved a
centre-based learning, on-the-job exposure for practical
training and placement assistance. The project had
three stages:- (A) Awareness (B) Foundation skills and
(C) Hands-on skills. Consultation with key stakeholders
and beneficiaries as part of impact assessment has
indicated following outcomes:●	96% of candidates secured placements in tier 1 and
tier 2 cities.
●	89% of candidates were placed with a salary range
of INR 8,000 to INR 15,000 per month.

95

5.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

●	91% of candidates expressed their satisfaction with
the practical exposure provided during the training.

●	65% respondents stated that Speed Cameras are
effective in enhancing safe driving behaviour.

●	98% of candidates were satisfied with the overall
training delivery, including the pedagogy and training
methods.

●	60% respondents believe that Rumble Strips at
High Fatality Zones are highly effective.

LIVELIHOODS ENHANCEMENT – RAIGAD

	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with Swades
Foundation to support COVID-19 pandemic impacted
families for creating livelihood opportunities in
Raigad District, Maharashtra. The project benefited
711 households (98% from tribal and OBC communities)
by providing support through goat rearing interventions
and providing of fishing nets. The Village Development
Committee (VDC) building was the key highlight of
this project which ensured community ownership and
management. VDC identified needy families and provided
them with fishing nets, goats, and bucks. Consultation
with key stakeholders and beneficiaries as part of impact
assessment has indicated following outcomes:-

7.

●	100% respondents rated the training as effective
in developing confidence about handling critical
situation as a first responder to accidents.
●	99% respondents acknowledged increase in their
knowledge regarding Law and Enforcement for First
Responders.

●	86% of the respondents had an increase of 1 to 5
goats, while 9% of them had 10+ goat increase.
●	70% beneficiaries of goat rearing intervention reported
an additional income in the range of INR 3,000 to
8,000 per annum while balance 30% beneficiaries
were in the range of INR 8,000 to 20,000 per annum.
RISE FOR SAFE ROADS

	Mahindra and Mahindra Limited partnered with Save Life
Foundation to implement the Rise for Safe Roads project,
in response to the alarming number of road accidents
and fatalities in India. The project aimed at achieving
near-zero fatality from preventable road crashes on
Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The Project covered several
aspects, such as Engineering, Enforcement, Emergency
and Trauma Care, Public Education and Awareness,
and Coalition Building. Holistic measures were taken
with installation of Chevron Sign Boards, S-Curve
Signage, Whole Line Tactile Edge Lines, Speed Camera,
Rumble strips, and Warning and Speed Limit Signages.
Consultation with key stakeholders and beneficiaries
as part of impact assessment has indicated following
outcomes:●	89% of the interviewed road users feel safe while
driving on Mumbai-Pune Expressway due to these
interventions.
●	71% respondents believe that standardizing speed
limit signages is effective in improving road safety.

UNITED FOR ROAD SAFETY

	Mahindra and Mahindra Limited partnered with United
Way Mumbai for a road safety project based on the
principles of Education – Engineering – Emergency
Response – Enforcement. The project implemented in
Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Igatpuri, Zaheerabad, Bengaluru,
Chennai and Haridwar, has benefited people at large
through various interventions such as Two Wheels One
Life, Global Road Safety Education for New Generation,
Jeevandoot Kit Distribution, Slow Down, and Respect
the Stop line. Consultation with key stakeholders and
beneficiaries as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes :-

●	100% beneficiaries who received fishing nets,
acknowledged rise in income due to nets provided
to them.

6.

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

●
8.

95% respondents found first-aid training effective.

SUSTAINABLE VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT – ALWAR

	Mahindra and Mahindra Limited partnered with Sarv
Mangal Gramin Vikas Sansthan to implement sustainable
village development project in 12 villages of Rajgarh
block in Alwar, Rajasthan. The project benefited 8,440
Community members, where 88% belonged to SC,
ST and OBC communities and 56% were from below
poverty line. Interventions included promoting soil
moisture and water conservation through various
methods such as farm bunding, masonry structures,
and earthen ponds. It also focused on sustainable
agriculture, women empowerment, building capacity of
community institutions, improving school infrastructure,
and enhancing sanitation facilities. Consultation with
key stakeholders and beneficiaries as part of impact
assessment has indicated following outcomes: ●	88% farmers reported an increase in the availability
of water for agriculture post intervention.
●	95% farmers acknowledged an improvement in
their knowledge of soil conservation activities.
●	83% farmers stated that their dependency on
chemical fertilizers had decreased.
●	48% farmers reported increase in crop yield
post-intervention.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

9.

96

●	87% farmers reported an increase in their annual
income due to project activities.

●	87% farmers witnessed improved soil fertility with
sustainable agriculture practices.

●	Livestock support led to 26% reduction in livestock
maintenance cost due to adoption of better
healthcare practices and support from Pashu-sakhi.

●	98% farmers reported improvement in knowledge
and skills due to training and capacity building.

SUSTAINABLE VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT – JALGAON

	Mahindra and Mahindra Limited partnered with AFPRO
(Action for Food Production) to implement sustainable
village development project in 10 drought-prone tribal
villages of Chopda block in Jalgaon, Maharashtra.
The project aimed to improve the quality of life for
tribal communities by using existing resources and
opportunities. Out of 2,090 households covered under
the project, 98% were from the tribal communities.
Interventions included promoting sustainable agriculture
practices, developing soil and water conservation
infrastructure, empowering women, supporting school
infrastructure, and improving community health and
hygiene. Consultation with key stakeholders and
beneficiaries as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes:●	88% farmers noted increased water storage
and reduced run-off due to check dams and tank
desilting.
●	60% farmers saw decreased agriculture costs from
vermicomposting.
●	83% farmers reported improved water use efficiency
through water budgeting activity.
●	93% farmers acknowledged that using drip/ micro
irrigation techniques helped conserve water.
●	15% of the women beneficiaries had backyard
nutritional garden.
10. SUSTAINABLE VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT – RAICHUR
	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with Mysore
Resettlement and Development Agency (MYRADA) to
implement sustainable village development project in
7 arid and drought prone villages in Raichur district
of Karnataka. The project benefited 3,114 community
members of which 83% belonged to SC and OBC
communities. Interventions included water conservation,
sustainable agriculture, health and hygiene, and
improvement in school infrastructure. Interventions for
women empowerment included distribution of tailoring
machines and training, flour mills and installation of
biogas units. Consultation with key stakeholders and
beneficiaries as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes:●	91% farmers observed up to 38% increase in
income due to improved access to water.

●	79% beneficiaries started kitchen garden activity
after the project intervention.
●	38% beneficiaries have initiated micro-enterprise
activities.
11. DIVERSION BASED IRRIGATION – NASHIK
	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with BAIF
Institute for Sustainable Livelihoods and Development
Maharashtra to implement Diversion Based Irrigation
and agriculture support interventions in tribal villages of
Peint block in Nashik, Maharashtra. A total of 127 tribal
farmers were benefitted from this project. This unique
model leveraged natural water streams and low-cost
structures to store and use water for irrigation. The
project also included construction of lined farm-ponds,
installation of solar panels for irrigation pump, drip
irrigation for horticulture, demonstration of high-density
mango plantation and guava plantation. Consultation
with key stakeholders and beneficiaries as part of impact
assessment has indicated following outcomes:●	67% farmers reported increase in yield due to
interventions.
●	76% farmers experienced improvement in quality
of yield due to improved knowledge and timely
availability of water.
●	With increased access to water, additional rabi and
kharif crop were taken, leading to increase in income.
●	The kisan mela and exposure visits have enabled
100% of the farmers to access better information
and markets for their produce.
12. SAMRIDDH KISAAN KRISHI MITR
	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with SM Sehgal
Foundation to implement the Samriddh Kisaan Krishi Mitr
project to leverage digital solutions in agriculture. The
project was implemented in Aurangabad, Sultanpur and
Chhindwara districts of Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and
Madhya Pradesh respectively to benefit 3,858 farmers.
It utilised Takneek plots (demonstration plots) to build
capacity of farmers by offering holistic information and
digitally enabled services across the entire crop cycle.
Furthermore, agronomy advisory, access to advanced
farm equipment and digital farming solutions were some
of the interventions utilised to reduce farming costs and
improve yield. Consultation with key stakeholders and
beneficiaries as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes:-

97

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

●	93% farmers were able to use mobile applications
for agri-advisory purposes.
●	92% farmers acknowledged use of information to
improve efficiency in farming practices.
●	90% farmers noted 5-10% increase in farm
productivity.
●	87% farmers observed improvement in crop yield
due to interventions.
13. ADARSH VIDYALAYA
	Mahindra and Mahindra Limited partnered with Vishal
Mumbai Shikshan Prasarak Mandal (VMSPM) for 3 years
(FY20, FY21, FY22) for reconstruction of a school
building namely Adarsh Vidyalaya in Goregaon, Mumbai.
Key objective was to create an enriched learning
environment for economically weaker students and instil
values of confidence, resilience, and civic responsibility
in them. Due to redevelopment of infrastructure, over
3,000 students and 100 teachers will benefit annually.
The school also actively fosters interactions between
parents, teachers, and students to support the growth
and development of its students. Consultation with key
stakeholders as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes:●	The project included building of Classrooms, Science
lab, Library and other amenities.
●	Improved infrastructure has created a more
supportive, safe, and secure environment for
students to learn and grow.
●	The project has significantly increased the school’s
capacity, allowing it to deliver education in Marathi
as well as English medium.
14. ANTIM PRASTHAN
 ahindra & Mahindra Limited partnered with Harilal
M
Parekh Parivar Charity Trust to renovate Mata Ramabai
Ambedkar Smashan Bhumi in Worli, Mumbai. The key
objective of the project was to provide dignified and
environment friendly final rites services. The project
offers alternatives to the conventional wood pyre,
with closed wood pyre and gas furnaces which are
both environment friendly and economical. To further
enhance sustainability, the project includes rainwater
harvesting, solar panels for power generation, and use
of composting pits, resulting in a landscaped garden
and burial ground with green pathways. Consultation
with key stakeholders as part of impact assessment has
indicated following outcomes:-

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

●	The project constructed 3 gas furnaces, 2 closed
wood furnaces, and 5 traditional wood pyres,
providing environment friendly and economical
alternatives for final rites.
●	Closed wood pyre saves up to 210 kg of wood, costs
INR 2,400 less and emits 80% less carbon.
15. HEAD AND NECK CANCER INSTITUTE OF INDIA
	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and Mahindra Foundation
partnered with CanCare Trust towards the building of
state of art ‘Head and Neck Cancer Institute of India’
(HNCII) in Mazgaon, Mumbai. This 93 bedded Specialized
Institute (first of its kind) is dedicated towards
diagnostic, curative specialized care for Head and Neck
cancer, alongside related ailments at subsidized rates
for economically weaker sections. Consultation with key
stakeholders as part of impact assessment has indicated
following outcomes:●	140 doctors and paramedical staff, and team of
diverse specialists for complex cases can provide
services at the hospital.
●	The hospital can reduce the cost of treatment by
40% compared to other cancer care hospitals.
●	20% of the beds are reserved for economically
weaker sections, where treatment is provided either
free of cost or at nominal rates.
●	The centre’s advanced research wing will train
specialists on modern technology and contribute
to developments in oncology, further enhancing the
centre’s capabilities.
16. COVID-19 RELIEF - TAMIL NADU
	The COVID-19 outbreak had put unprecedented strain
on India’s healthcare system. With more than 34 lakh
infections and 38,000 fatalities, Tamil Nadu was
among some of the worst affected states. Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited provided 200 oxygen concentrators
to 6 districts of Tamil Nadu (Theni, Ariyalur, Cuddalore,
Thiruvannamalai, Salem and Chengalpattu) via district
administrations to support the COVID-19 relief efforts.
Consultation with key stakeholders as part of impact
assessment has indicated following outcomes:●	Hypoxic patients benefitted with access to oxygen
through concentrators.
●	Even post the pandemic, oxygen concentrators are
continued to be used for treatment of patients from
other illnesses who need oxygen support.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

98

ANNEXURE VII
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
SECTION 134(3)(m) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ
WITH RULE 8(3) OF THE COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES,
2014 IS FORMING PART OF THE BOARD´S REPORT FOR
THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2022-23

(A) Conservation of Energy
	Your Company is committed to sustainable business
practices by contributing to environment protection
and considers energy conservation as one of the strong
pillars of preserving natural resources. This also helps
the Company in reducing carbon footprint across all
its operations and improve the bottom-line under its
‘Mission Sustainability’.

●	Thrust on zero waste to land fill and promote
circular economy.
●	Eco efficiency in supply chain.
●	Creating awareness and promote sustainability
amongst stakeholders.
i.	The steps taken or impact on conservation of
energy
		

●	Installation of energy efficient EC blower for
paint shop and HVAC applications.

		

●	Replacement of conventional air circulators
with BLDC technology air circulators.

	Your Company is the first Indian signatory to EP100
(Energy Productivity 100%) by 2030 with base year
2009, a program promoted by ‘Climate Group’. Further,
your Company has committed to becoming Carbon
Neutral by 2040. Your Company is also committed for
Science Based Target (SBT) to De-carbonize its growth
and thus contributing to keep global temperature rise
well below 2 degrees Celsius as per Paris Accord 2015.

		

●	Hybrid solar system for air conditioning system.

		

●	Improving energy efficiency through VFD’s,
interlockings, automations and digitization.

		

●	Inverter based welding machines for processes.

		

●	Smart lighting system for shop floor and offices.

		

●	Replacement of old motors with premium
efficiency IE3 motors.

	Your Company has a robust roadmap for achieving
targets for improving energy efficiency and adoption
of renewable energy. Your Company continues to
invest in various energy efficiency programs abiding
by its commitment towards internal carbon price of
USD 10 per ton of carbon emitted.

		

●	Energy efficiency high volume low speed (HVLS)
fans at shop floor.

		

●	Installation of auto
compressed air.

		

●	Waste heat recovery from air compressors and
paint shops.

	Your Company has always been conscious of the need for
energy conservation and preserving natural resources.
Energy conservation measures have been implemented
at all the plants and offices of the Company. Listing
below are few of those initiatives:●	Programs for improving energy efficiency and
energy productivity across all operations.
●	Thrust on increasing share of renewable energy.
●	Adoption of Green energy for manufacturing
operations.
●	Converting existing Facilities into Green buildings
and factories.
●	Rain water harvesting, reduce usage, reuse and
recycle water.

shut

off

valves

for

		Your Company believes in employee engagement for
driving positive change towards this goal and has
taken multiple initiatives. Select few initiatives are
listed below:
		

●	National energy conservation week celebration
at all plants during 14th to 20th December.

		

●	Organizing multiple competitions on Energy
conservation like Best case study on
energy efficiency, Quiz contest, suggestion
competition, etc.

		

●	Sustainability month celebration at all plants
(June month).

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

		

●	Organizing annual Sustainability summit for
employees.

		

●	Capability building programs on Energy and
Sustainability for employees and Supplier
partners. Organizing various competitions to
engage employees like ECO warrior, posters,
slogans, suggestions and quiz.

		

●	Sustainability awareness for family members of
Employees.

		

●	Enhance learning through digital platforms like
E learning, Webinars.

		

●	Awareness creation through e-mailers, wall
papers, etc.

ii.	The steps taken by the Company for utilising
alternate sources of energy
		For the year under review, your Company has
sourced 79.93 MWp Solar power and 14.7 MW
Wind power contributing to 32% of total power
consumption which mitigates 94,273 tons of CO2.
		Your Company has set a target to increase the share
of renewable energy to around 50% by Financial
Year 2025.
iii.	The capital investment on energy conservation
equipments
		For the year under review, your Company
implemented various projects towards Energy
Conservation, to the tune of Rs. 12.09 crores.
		These projects include Energy efficient motors,
EC blower, BLDC air circulators, compressor heat
recovery, energy efficient pumps, VFD’s and many
more energy conservation initiatives.

(B) Technology Absorption
(i) The efforts made towards technology absorption:
		Your Company is committed towards technology
driven innovation and inculcating an innovation
driven culture within the organisation.
		During the year under review, your Company
continued to work on advanced technologies,
upgradation of existing technology and capability
development in the critical areas for current and
future growth.

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

		The Automotive Sector is committed to expand its
vision on multiple emerging technologies, including
electric vehicles, autonomous vehicles, battery
technologies, motors for electric vehicles, active
safety systems, advanced electronics, technologies
for light-weighting, enhanced vehicle dynamics
and connected vehicles. In Farm Equipment
Sector, technology areas such as best in class
mileage, in-house cabin design, emission reduction
technologies, compact modular agriculture machines,
reduced vibration, high precision hydraulics, smart
combine harvesters, smart connected implements,
transmission efficiency improvement, automated
applications to reduce human efforts, light weight
tractors, CNG powered tractor, and Electric tractor
were given special emphasis. This would help
in making the Company’s products retain their
competitive edge in the market in the coming years.
		Your Company continues to invest in technology
development as well as protection through patents.
For the year under review, your Company filed a
total of 170 patent applications. Cumulatively, your
Company has filed 2,019 patent applications so
far. The Company’s total granted patent portfolio
stands at 511 across multiple geographies and has
significantly grown over last few years. This includes
the portfolio of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited
since it has merged with the Company.

Number of Patents Granted - Cumulave
Number of Granted Patents

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

99

511

600
500

329

400
300
200
100
0

85

99

Upto F18

F19

152

F20

232

F21

F22

F23

Fiscal Years

Technical Capability Building:
Your Company has been continuously investing in
reskilling its engineers in emerging technology areas of
electric, connected, autonomous vehicle technologies,
smart agricultural implements, precision farming, etc. The
product design engineers are also trained in technologies
like Data Science, AI, IoT, Mechatronics, Design Thinking,
etc., and are encouraged to leverage the power of these
technologies in new product development.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

(ii)	The benefits derived like product improvement,
cost reduction, product development or import
substitution:
		The efforts taken by your Company towards
technology development and absorption help deliver
competitive advantage and market leadership
through the launch of customer centric products
and variants, introduction of new features and
improvement of product performance.

		

●	Scorpio-N has been awarded a full, 5-star
safety rating by the Global NCAP (New Car
Assessment Program). The Scorpio-N scored
five stars for adult occupant protection and
three stars for child occupant protection. The
first ever body-on-frame SUV to achieve a
5-star Global NCAP rating.

		

●	Advanced vehicle features like connected
car features, wireless charging, multi-terrain
mode changes, command seating, intelligent
cockpit technology, driver drowsiness detection,
electronic stability control are implemented in
the Company’s vehicles.

		

●	Advanced engine features like Map controlled
piston cooling jet, Gasoline Particulate Filter
and Shift by cable transmission technology are
implemented in the Company’s vehicle engines.

		Some examples of results delivered in the year
2022-23 are:
		Automotive Sector
		

●	Launch of Scorpio-N with Intuitive Adrenox
Intelligence, Dual Zone Automatic Temperature
Control, Double Barrel Headlamps, 4XPLOR
Terrain Mode, and world-class safety features.

		

●	Launch of Scorpio Classic with all-new powerful
mHAWK engine and premium interiors.

		

●	Launch of XUV400, the first all-electric SUV with
cutting-edge technologies, powerful features
including Single Pedal Drive, 3 Intelligent Drive
Modes, 7.2 kW Charger, Connected Car feature,
and Smartwatch Connectivity.

		

●	Launch of Bolero Maxx Pik-Up with iMAXX
technology, wider track for high-speed stability,
shorter rear overhang for upright loaded stance,
lower turning radius, best in class mileage and
payload capacity.

		

●	Launch of Zor Grand Electric Three-Wheeler
with best-in industry power of 12 kW, 50 Nm
torque, Best-in Class gradeability of 11.5° with
excellent pickup, advanced Lithium-ion battery
technology, 170 Cu. feet delivery box, 6 Feet
loading tray and a range of 100+ km/charge.
Also, Zor Grand comes with the NEMO connected
vehicle platform for fleet management.

		

●	Launch of RoadMaster G75 Smart Motor Grader
with 74 HP CRDi engine which is coupled with a
3m (10 feet) wide blade and iMAXX telematics
solution.

		

●	Launch of All New Thar RWD with mStallion
150 TGDI petrol engine and D117 CRDe diesel
engine. Also, added an electronic brake locking
differential to the All New Thar 4WD variants.

100

		Farm Equipment Sector
		

●	Launch of 6 new tractor variants under the
Yuvo Tech+ platform namely 275 Yuvo Tech+,
405 Yuvo Tech+ and 415 Yuvo Tech+ with the
3-cylinder m-ZIP engine, and the 475 Yuvo
Tech+, 575 Yuvo Tech+ and 585 Yuvo Tech+
with 4-cylinder ELS engine.

		

●	Yuvo Tech+ series tractors have many advanced
features including new high cubic capacity
m Zip engine high backup torque, high max
torque, best-in-class PTO power, best-in-class
mileage, parallel engine cooling, 12 Forward
+ 3 Reverse multiple speed options, dual
clutch, SLIPTO (Single Lever Independent PTO),
4WD with H-M-L speed range, helical gear
for high load-carrying capacity, full constant
mesh transmission, hi-precision control valve,
enhanced lift capacity of up to 1,700 kg, side
shift gear, best-in-class ergonomics, dual acting
balanced power steering and Better service
interval (400 hours).

		

●	Launched smallest HP 4WD tractor in Mahindra
range under Jivo brand for Sugar cane
interculture and Orchards.

		

●	NEF range of CRDe engines on >50 HP tractors
to meet the Trem IV emission norms. This range
of Trem IV compliant tractors is equipped
with new innovative features like power mode
selection, Digisense and global hydraulics.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

101

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

		

●	Indigenous Design and Development of Tractor Cabin for Export Markets.

		

●	Launch of Novo refresh tractor ranging from 55 to 75 HP meeting TREM 4 emission norms, including patented
multi drivability mode (MDM) feature, high lift capacity of hydraulics, best in class vibration level with balancer shaft
for better riding comfort.

		

●	Introduction of HTBU (high torque back up) Arjun Novo tractor at 50 HP.

		

●	Introduction of 110 HP SCR based NEF engines for Combine Harvester and for Erkunt Tractors.

		

●	Launched Dharti Mitra by farm machinery, a new umbrella brand offering an exclusive range of products that
caters to all farming needs.

		

●	Launch of IoT-based Smart Kit for farm equipment monitoring by Krish-e. The IoT (Internet of Things)-based Smart
Kit provides equipment owners with detailed insights of their tractors and farm equipment, through GPS-enabled
time tracking and remote monitoring of various parameters from the comfort of a smartphone.

(iii)	In case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from the beginning of the
financial year):
Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No.

Year of
Import

Status of Technology
Absorption

1.

Selective Catalyst Reduction (SCR) Technology

2020

Technology Absorbed

2.

Diesel particulate Filter (DPF) Technology

2020

Technology Absorbed

3.

Advanced safety features

2020

Technology Absorbed

4.

Sequential Turn Indicator

2020

Technology Absorbed

5.

Adaptive Driving Beam @

2020

In the process of Absorption

6.

Dynamic Bending Lamp @

2020

In the process of Absorption

7.

5-Phase High Efficiency Alternator @

2020

In the process of Absorption

8.

LIN Controlled Switches

2020

Technology Absorbed

9.

Smart Hydraulics

2020

Technology Absorbed

10. Hill Farming

2020

Technology Absorbed

11. Hydraulic Higher Lift Capacity

2020

Technology Absorbed

12. DLC coated Piston Pin technology

2021

Technology Absorbed

13. Hollow cam shaft Gasoline engines

2021

Technology Absorbed

14. Hollow sodium cooled exhaust Valve technology in Gasoline

2021

Technology Absorbed

15. 350 bar GDI System in Gasoline engines

2021

Technology Absorbed

16. Fully variable displacement oil pump in diesel

2021

Technology Absorbed

17. Map controlled Piston cooling jet

2021

Technology Absorbed

18. Miller + variable geometry gasoline turbine @

2021

In the process of Absorption

19. Adaptive cruise control

2021

Technology Absorbed

20. Automatic transmission with Neutral controlled function

2021

Technology Absorbed

21. Gasoline Particulate filter

2021

Technology Absorbed

22. Potato Planter Electric Vibrator

2022

Technology Absorbed

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

102

Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No.

Year of
Import

Status of Technology
Absorption

23. Mass Balancer Shaft for 4 Cylinder Engine

2022

Technology Absorbed

24. Smart Combine Harvester

2022

Technology Absorbed

25. High Ground Clearance Tractor @

2022

In the process of Absorption

26. Dual Fuel CNG Tractor @

2022

In the process of Absorption

27. Electronic Hydrostatic Transmission (eHST) for tractors @

2022

In the process of Absorption

28. Electronic Power Shuttle (ePST) for tractors @

2022

In the process of Absorption

29. Electronic Depth & Draft Control (EDDC) for tractors @

2022

In the process of Absorption

30. Engine start/Go Home/Lead me Home using BLE for tractors @

2022

In the process of Absorption

31. Multi Drive Mode Engine for tractors

2022

Technology Absorbed

32. Auto Implement lifting & PTO stop for tractor safety @

2022

In the process of Absorption

33. Selective Auto Braking while turning of tractors @

2022

In the process of Absorption

34. Global Hydraulics

2022

Technology Absorbed

35. Electric Tractor @

2022

In the process of Absorption

36. Intelligent energy management @

2022

In the process of Absorption

37. Passive SCR for diesel engines for BS6.2 @

2022

In the process of Absorption

38. NOx sensor application for BS6.2 @

2022

In the process of Absorption

39. PN sensor application for BS6.2 @

2022

In the process of Absorption

40. High Voltage LFP battery cell application @

2022

In the process of Absorption

41. 3 in 1 E drive system application for BEV @

2022

In the process of Absorption

42. High power onboard charger application for Electric vehicles @

2022

In the process of Absorption

43. Aluminum extrusion battery pack application in Electric vehicles @

2022

In the process of Absorption

44. Interior Illumination @

2022

In the process of Absorption

45. Emotion recognition @

2022

In the process of Absorption

46. Digital Key @

2022

In the process of Absorption

47. Smart cabin personalization @

2022

In the process of Absorption

48. Advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) L2+ @

2022

In the process of Absorption

49. Prognostics @

2022

In the process of Absorption

50. Central integrated module @

2022

In the process of Absorption

51. V2X connectivity @

2022

In the process of Absorption

52. Regional language voice engine @

2022

In the process of Absorption

53. Smart Surface @

2022

In the process of Absorption

54. Wellness seat (ventilated/massager) @

2022

In the process of Absorption

103

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No.

Year of
Import

Status of Technology
Absorption

55. Thermal control glass @

2022

In the process of Absorption

56. Active grill shutter @

2022

In the process of Absorption

57. Clean Cabin @

2022

In the process of Absorption

58. Semi Dampening Control @

2022

In the process of Absorption

59. Integrated Dynamic Brake @

2022

In the process of Absorption

60. Active noise Cancellation @

2022

In the process of Absorption

61. Signature sound @

2022

In the process of Absorption

62. Electronic 4WD Tractor @

2023

In the process of Absorption

63. Aluminum cylinder head for Tractor Engines @

2023

In the process of Absorption

64. EGR cooler module for Tractor Engines @

2023

In the process of Absorption

65. Passive Diesel Particulate Filter for off-road engines @

2023

In the process of Absorption

66. Active Diesel Particulate Filter for off-road engines @

2023

In the process of Absorption

67. Tractor Engines for Stage V emission norms @

2023

In the process of Absorption

68. Remote Selective Catalytic Reduction for off-road engines @

2023

In the process of Absorption

69. TREM-V for Domestic Tractors @

2023

In the process of Absorption

70. BS-V (CEV) for Domestic construction equipment vehicles @

2023

In the process of Absorption

71. Light weight Piston & Connecting rod for Off-road engines @

2023

In the process of Absorption

72. Low friction off-road engines @

2023

In the process of Absorption

73. Level 2 Tractor Automation for driver assistant - straight line and
headland turn @

2023

In the process of Absorption

74. ASIC rated BMS application in HV battery packs @

2023

In the process of Absorption

75. Cell to Pack battery pack technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

76. Cell supervisor circuit in HV battery @

2023

In the process of Absorption

77. Rack-assist steering with Variable Gear Ratio (VGR) technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

78. i-Link front suspension technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

79. 5-link rear suspension technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

80. Mars Roof technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

81. Fixed glass roof technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

82. Ambient lightening @

2023

In the process of Absorption

83. Next generation cockpit with edge to edge display @

2023

In the process of Absorption

84. Semi-active suspension @

2023

In the process of Absorption

85. Integrated Electronic Brake system @

2023

In the process of Absorption

86. Torque Vectoring @

2023

In the process of Absorption

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

104

Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No.

Year of
Import

Status of Technology
Absorption

87. Split type HVAC system @

2023

In the process of Absorption

88. Active Grill Shutter @

2023

In the process of Absorption

89. Heat-pump technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

90. Tri-zone cooling technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

91. PM sensor with cabin air quality Index display @

2023

In the process of Absorption

92. Driver-Only HVAC cooling mode @

2023

In the process of Absorption

93. Auto Defog @

2023

In the process of Absorption

94. High-energy low-friction check-arm @

2023

In the process of Absorption

95. Pillar mounted outer door handle @

2023

In the process of Absorption

96. Aluminum Energy Absorbers in BIW @

2023

In the process of Absorption

97. Plastic Energy Absorbers for light weighting @

2023

In the process of Absorption

98. Semi-hidden waist seal @

2023

In the process of Absorption

99. Hybrid doors and glass run seal @

2023

In the process of Absorption

100. Smart wiper @

2023

In the process of Absorption

101. AR-HUD windshield with wedge PVB and press bending @

2023

In the process of Absorption

102. Laminated acoustic side glass @

2023

In the process of Absorption

103. Acoustic tail glass @

2023

In the process of Absorption

104. Strap-type Inner Door Handle @

2023

In the process of Absorption

105. Illuminated logo @

2023

In the process of Absorption

106. Power operated lift-gate with hands-free access @

2023

In the process of Absorption

107. Compact and foldable sun visor @

2023

In the process of Absorption

108. Smart Haptic Seats (Massager & additional features) @

2023

In the process of Absorption

109. Lounge Seats for Staycation @

2023

In the process of Absorption

110. Hybrid Cross Car Beam (Mg Steel) for light weighting @

2023

In the process of Absorption

111. CAP sense switches @

2023

In the process of Absorption

112. Asymmetric tires with high cornering stiffness @

2023

In the process of Absorption

113. Low rolling resistance tires @

2023

In the process of Absorption

114. Low friction wheel bearing @

2023

In the process of Absorption

115. Tires with foam for low noise @

2023

In the process of Absorption

116. Styled steel wheel rim @

2023

In the process of Absorption

117. Alloy wheel with flow forming @

2023

In the process of Absorption

118. Hydro-bush for NVH and ride improvement @

2023

In the process of Absorption

119. Open Bleed Technology @

2023

In the process of Absorption

105

		

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No.

Year of
Import

Status of Technology
Absorption

120. Hydraulic Compression Stopper @

2023

In the process of Absorption

121. Pillar to Pillar 3-Screen Display & HMI @

2023

In the process of Absorption

122. OTA Updates - Software Defined Vehicle @

2023

In the process of Absorption

123. OTT Entertainment Apps - Software Defined Vehicle @

2023

In the process of Absorption

124. DOMS - Software Defined Vehicle @

2023

In the process of Absorption

125. Ambient Lighting @

2023

In the process of Absorption

126. Animation and Start up Sequencing @

2023

In the process of Absorption

127. Ice Cube Theme in Head lamp @

2023

In the process of Absorption

@	Areas where Technology not fully absorbed, reasons thereof:

			All imported technologies ‘In the process of Absorption’ would be absorbed as per the respective Technology
Absorption Schedule.
	(iv)	The expenditure incurred on Research and Development:
		The Company spent Rs. 2,780.57 crores (including Rs. 1,940.96 crores on Capital Expenditure) for Research &
Development work during the year, which was approximately 3% of the total turnover.

(C) Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
	Foreign Exchange earnings and outgo during the year under review are as follows:
(Rs. in crores)
Total Foreign Exchange Earned and Outgo

For the Financial Year
ended 31st March, 2023

For the Financial Year
ended 31st March, 2022

Foreign Currency Earnings

4,466.66

3,328.15

Foreign Exchange Outgo

7,048.74

2,789.11

For and on behalf of the Board
ANAND G. MAHINDRA
Chairman
DIN: 00004695
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

106

ANNEXURE VIII
POLICIES
Your Company is committed to adhere to the highest possible standards of ethical, moral and legal business conduct. Considering
this, your Company has formulated certain policies, inter alia, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013
(“the Act”), SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”), SEBI (Prohibition of
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021. The policies
as mentioned below are available on the Company’s website and can be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. These policies are reviewed periodically and are updated
as and when needed. During the year, the Company had revised and adopted some of its Policies in order to align the same
with recent changes in Corporate Laws.
A brief description about the Key Policies adopted by the Company is as under:
Sr. Name of the Policy
No.

Brief description

Summary of key changes made to the
Policies during the year

1.

Whistle-blower Policy

The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Act and There has been no change to this policy.
Listing Regulations is implemented through the
Whistle-blower Policy to provide for adequate
safeguards against victimization of persons who
use such mechanism and make provision for
direct access to the Chairperson of the Audit
Committee.

2.

Code of Conduct

The Board of your Company has laid down two The Directors of your Company approved
separate Codes of Conduct, one for all the amendment to the Code of Conduct with a
Board Members and the other for Employees view to simplify the Code, making it more
of the Company. This Code is the central policy comprehensive, including new Clauses to
document, outlining the requirements that the keep it relevant with the evolving Society
employees working for and with the Company and business environment.
must comply with, regardless of their location.
There has been no change to the Code of
Conduct for Board Members.

3.

Dividend Distribution Policy

The Dividend Distribution Policy as per There has been no change to this policy.
Regulation 43A of the Listing Regulations is
attached as Annexure I to the Board’s Report
and forms part of this Annual Report.

4.

Code
of
Practices
and This Code has been formulated to ensure prompt, There has been no change to the Code.
Procedures for Fair Disclosure timely and adequate disclosure of Unpublished
of Unpublished Price Sensitive Price Sensitive Information (“UPSI”) which,
inter alia, includes policy for Determination of
Information
“Legitimate Purposes”.

5.

Policy for determination of This policy requires the Company to make There has been no change to this policy.
Materiality for disclosure of any disclosure of events or information which are
material to the Company as per the requirements
Events or Information
of Regulation 30 of the Listing Regulations.

6.

Policy for determining Material The policy is used to identify material subsidiaries There has been no change to this policy.
Subsidiaries
of the Company and to provide a governance
framework for such material subsidiaries.

107

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

Sr. Name of the Policy
No.

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Brief description

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Summary of key changes made to the
Policies during the year

7.

Policy on Materiality of and The policy has been framed in order to regulate There has been no change to this policy during
Dealing with Related Party all Related Party Transactions of the Company. the year.
Transactions
Subsequent to the year end, the Policy has
been amended to inter alia align with the
provisions under Listing Regulations which
were applicable with effect from 1st April, 2023.

8.

Policy
on
Appointment This policy includes the criteria for determining There has been no change to this policy
of
Directors
and
Senior qualifications,
positive
attributes
and during the year.
Management and succession independence of a Director, identification of
planning for orderly succession persons who are qualified to become Directors Subsequent to the year end, the Policy
to the Board and the Senior and who may be appointed in the Senior has been amended to inter alia align with
Management
Management Team in accordance with the the amendment to the Listing Regulations
criteria laid down in the said Policy, succession including definition of ‘Senior Management’.
planning for Directors and Senior Management,
and policy statement for Talent Management
framework of the Company.

9.

Policy for remuneration of This policy sets out the approach of the Company There has been no change to this policy.
the Directors, Key Managerial towards the Compensation of Directors, Key
Personnel and other employees Managerial Personnel and other employees in
the Company.

10.

Corporate Social Responsibility The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is The CSR Policy of the Company was
Policy
aimed, inter alia, at promoting a unified and amended to include in Annexure-1 of the
strategic approach to CSR across the Company CSR Policy, the CSR Projects undertaken by
by incorporating under one “Rise for Good” the Company in the Financial Year 2022umbrella the diverse range of its philanthropic 23.
giving, identifying select constituencies and
causes to work with, thereby ensuring a high
social impact.

11.

Archival Policy

As per the policy, the events or information There has been no change to this policy.
which has been disclosed by the Company to
the Stock Exchanges pursuant to Regulation
30 of the Listing Regulations shall be hosted
on the website of the Company for a period of
5 years from the date of hosting.

12.

Business Responsibility Policy

The objective of this policy is to ensure a unified There has been no change to this policy.
and common approach to the dimensions
of Business Responsibility across M&M and
Group companies, act as a strategic driver that
will help all Group Companies respond to the
complexities and challenges that keep emerging
and be abreast with changes in regulations.

13.

Safety, Occupational Health and The vision of the policy is to sustain zero incident, There has been no change to this policy.
Environment Policy
zero occupational health hazard and pollution
free working environmental organization.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Sr. Name of the Policy
No.

Brief description

108

Summary of key changes made to the
Policies during the year

14.

Policy on Prevention of Sexual The policy on Sexual Harassment is for There has been no change to this policy.
Harassment
redressal of complaints received regarding
sexual harassment and compliance of other
provisions as per the Sexual Harassment of
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013. The Company in its
good governance has extended the same to
male employees also.

15.

Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption While the basic tenets of anti-bribery and During the year under review, the Directors
(ABAC) Policy
anti-corruption policy are enshrined in the of your Company approved amendments to
Code of Conduct of the Company, this Policy this Policy with a view to simplify and make
comprehensively captures the Company’s the Policy concise by retaining the essence
approach towards bribery and corruption in and ethos of the Policy.
detail.

16.

Investor
Policy

17.

Policy on Gifts & Entertainment The Policy lays down the guidelines for During the year under review a concise
acceptance of gifts and entertainment by version of the Policy was adopted without
employees of the Company. Permitted deviations any material change and retaining the
& processes are laid down through this Policy. essence and ethos of the Policy. Definitions
from the Policy have been moved to the
document ‘M&M Policy Definitions’.

Grievance

Redressal The Policy is to promote and build prompt The Escalation Matrix for Investor
Investor Grievance Redressal Mechanism and Grievances forming part of the Policy has
investor friendly relations.
been updated during the year under review.

Subsequent to the year end, the Directors
of your Company approved amendments
to this Policy with a view to include a
clause on offering or accepting invitation
to sporting, cultural or other events which
Mahindra organises / sponsors or to which
Mahindra has access, with prior approval
of the relevant Group Executive Board
(GEB) member and a clause on combining
a colleague’s social event with business
travel.

109

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Particulars of loans/advances, etc. pursuant to Para A of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015
Loans and advances in nature of loans to Subsidiaries: (Net of Provisions)
(Rs. in crores)
Name of the Company

Balances as on
31st March, 2023

Maximum
outstanding
during the year

1,583.47

1,583.47

0.00

4.17

34.00

34.00

0.00

34.37

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

575.00

575.00

Classic Legends Private Limited

150.00

150.00

0.00

64.89

Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited
Mahindra Airways Limited
Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited
Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.A.R.L.

#

@

Ssangyong Motor Company (SYMC)*

	Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (Director of the Company) is also a Director of Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.A.R.L. but he does not have any
other concern or interest.

#

	Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (Promoter & Director of the Company) and Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (Director of the Company) are also Directors of Classic Legends
Private Limited but they do not have any other concern or interest.

@

*	Ssangyong Motor Company (SYMC) ceased to be a subsidiary of the Company under the Companies Act, 2013 w.e.f. 2nd September, 2022. SYMC had
already ceased to be a subsidiary as per Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) w.e.f. 24th December, 2020. SYMC is also not treated as related party.

Loans and advances in nature of loans to Associates/Joint Venture:
(Rs. in crores)
Name of the Company

Mahindra Ideal Lanka Private Limited

Balances as on
31st March, 2023

Maximum
outstanding
during the year

0.00

1.94

112

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited ("M&M") or ("Mahindra") is the flagship
company of the Mahindra Group, which consists of diverse business
interests across the globe.

INDUSTRY STRUCTURE,
OVERVIEW AND TRENDS

At Mahindra, we constantly push the boundaries of possibilities to
create products and technology-led services that enable our
customers and stakeholders to Rise. By focussing on customer
centricity, delivering accessible technology, innovation and
enhancing people capabilities, we continue to drive growth in the
domestic market while pursuing global expansion.

AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY

In the Financial Year 2022-23, your Company sold 6,98,456 vehicles
(a growth of 50% over the previous year) and 4,07,545 tractors
(under the Mahindra, Swaraj and Trakstar brands, a growth of 14.9%
over the previous year). These are the highest ever vehicle sales and
tractor sales in any year by the Company.

In Calendar Year 2022, worldwide sales of Passenger Cars and
Commercial Vehicles increased to 81.6 million, a de-growth of 1%
over the Calendar Year 2021 sales of 82.7 million. Global Passenger
Car sales reported a growth of 1.9% and Commercial Vehicle sales
reported a de-growth of 8.3%. The global auto industry is still
recovering from COVID-19 impact and is down by 11% from an alltime high in 2017. India has achieved 3rd rank behind China and the
United States of America in the segments for passenger and
commercial vehicles together.

50%

14.9%

DOMESTIC SALES

6,98,456

4,07,545

VEHICLES SOLD

TRACTORS SOLD

GLOBAL SALES

The fastest
growing segment
worldwide was
that of Electric
Vehicles (EVs) and
has grown at 58%
CAGR over the last
ﬁve years. Annual
global EV sales
stand at 7.1 million
which is 12.4% of
total PV sales, as
compared to just
1% ﬁve years back.

6,97,494
VEHICLES

33.6%

(Source: OICA - Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d 'Automobiles)

4,24,276
TRACTORS

The Automotive and Farm Sectors, along with their subsidiaries,
associate companies and joint ventures, achieved global sales of
1.12 million vehicles and tractors (6,97,494 vehicles and 4,24,276
tractors), a growth of 33.6% over the previous year.

The long-term growth outlook for the Indian auto industry is positive,
driven by robust economic growth outlook, focussed Government
policies with vision for 2047, Government focus on road and
infrastructure development, increasing income levels, current low
levels of vehicle penetration, rapid urbanisation and a large, young
and aspiring population.
While the long-term outlook for the Indian auto industry is promising,
there has been some softening of demand for automobiles during
the period between F19 - F23, as compared to the previous ten-year
period of F09 - F19. Exports from India too have been impacted in this
period.

113

Segment

CAGR F09-F19

CAGR F19-F23

PV (Domestic Sales)

8.1%

3.6%

CV (Domestic Sales)

10.1%

-1.1%

Domestic Sales (Excl. 2W)

8.3%

1.2%

PV (Export)

7.3%

-0.5%

CV (Export)

8.9%

0.7%

The softening of demand in the last three years is a result of tapering
of GDP growth, shortage of semiconductors, loss of income due to
COVID-19 in F20-21, increasing cost of ownership due to addition of
multiple safety features and implementation of stricter emission
norms during the last few years.
The Indian auto industry is aware of the need for reducing
dependence on imported oil, improving safety on the roads and most
importantly, the need for clean air. Over the years, the industry has
made significant investments in indigenisation of technologies in the
conventional vehicles space where meeting BS-VI in 3 years is an
example. In F23, the industry has implemented BS6.2 emission
norms in the country. The Government of India (GOI) has notified
Electric vehicle technology and Hydrogen fuel cell technology as
advanced automotive technology under PLI (Production Linked
Incentive) Scheme. The GOI's ambitious scheme to expedite the
adoption of electric vehicles - Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of
Electric Vehicles in India Phase II (FAME Phase II)-has been extended
by 2 years i.e. up to 31st March, 2024.

The Government of India has
announced the PLI (Production
Linked Incentive) Scheme for
AAT (Advance Automotive
Technologies) like battery electric
vehicles and hydrogen fuel cell
vehicles.

Furthermore, with the objective of maximising local value addition
and building competitiveness of the Indian industry, the Government
has announced the Phased Manufacturing Plan (PMP). The Indian
auto industry is making the necessary investments and is focused on
building capabilities in the EV space.

AUTO INDUSTRY IN FY 2022-23
In Financial Year 2022-23, the Indian auto industry has shown double
digit growth across all segments. Passenger vehicles have reached
new highest ever mark with 3.89 million sales units while commercial
vehicles are still below F19 levels by 4.5%. Indian auto industry sales
(excluding two-wheelers) have recorded highest ever sales of 5.3
million units with 15.7% YoY growth.

Partial recovery of Auto Industry was principally a result of:

Supply shortage of
semiconductors in
first half of F23.

Rural recovery compared
to pre-pandemic still
needs time.

As a result, the industry volume of two-wheelers and three-wheelers
are showing slower recovery and are still down by 25.1% and 30.3%
compared to F19 levels.
Over the ten years between F13 and F23, the Utility Vehicle (UV)
segment has witnessed a good growth of 13.7% CAGR. UV, as
share of PV, has increased from 13.8% in F12 to 51.5% in F23.
This growth in UV is driven by increased customer preference for UVstyled vehicles and a shift from compact cars to compact UVs (less
than 4m length). In the last two years (F22 - F23), there were 18 new
launches in the UV segment, and these accounted for 8% of UV
volume in F22-23. For the year F23, compact UVs accounted for 50%
of UV volume.

We believe that electric vehicle
adoption in India would be led by
e-3W; the key drivers being
improving operating economies,
easy deployment for last/ﬁrst mile
connectivity (including at metro
stations) and the growth of startups as 3W aggregators. For the
year F23, a total of 65,059 e-3W
were sold, accounting for 8.5% of
the 3W industry.

114

Industry Segment

Domestic Industry Volume

YoY Growth

F21

F22

F23

F21

F22

F23

Passenger Cars

15,41,866

14,67,039

17,47,376

-9.1%

-4.9%

19.1%

Utility Vehicles

10,60,750

14,89,219

20,03,718

12.1%

40.4%

34.5%

MPV (Vans)

1,08,841

1,13,265

1,39,020

-17.6%

4.1%

22.7%

27,11,457

30,69,523

38,90,114

-2.2%

13.2%

26.7%

1,60,688

2,40,577

3,59,003

-28.4%

49.7%

49.2%

7,322

11,804

38,410

-81.7%

61.2%

225.4%

Passenger Vehicles
MHCV
MHCV Passenger

1,53,366

2,28,773

3,20,593

-16.8%

49.2%

40.1%

ICV Goods (7.5 to 12T)

27,962

34,822

35,298

-32.1%

24.5%

1.4%

MCV Goods (12 to 18.5T)

37,402

51,835

68,187

-7.3%

38.6%

31.5%

MHCV Goods

HCV Goods >18.5T
LCV
LCV Passenger

88,002

1,42,116

2,17,108

-14.5%

61.5%

52.8%

4,07,871

4,75,989

6,03,465

-17.3%

16.7%

26.8%

12,088

19,957

44,315

-73.6%

65.1%

122.1%

LCV Goods < 2T GVW

1,40,109

1,71,461

1,92,982

-21.8%

22.4%

12.6%

LCV Goods 2-3.5T GVW

2,25,658

2,51,944

3,31,655

-2.6%

11.6%

31.6%

LCV Goods > 3.5T GVW

30,016

32,627

34,513

-17.4%

8.7%

5.8%

5,68,559

7,16,566

9,62,468

-20.8%

26.0%

34.3%

1,35,414

1,73,356

3,61,094

-74.2%

28.0%

108.3%

84,032

76,174

97,540

-24.7%

-9.4%

28.0%

3W-e-Rickshaw

-

10,580

26,654

NA

NA

151.9%

3W-e-Cart

-

1,275

3,480

NA

NA

172.9%

2,19,446

2,61,385

4,88,768

-65.6%

19.1%

87.0%

Total CV
3W Passenger
3W Goods

3W
Scooters

44,82,305

41,12,672

51,90,018

-19.5%

-8.2%

26.2%

Motorcycles

1,00,21,231

89,84,186

1,02,30,502

-10.6%

-10.3%

13.9%

6,17,247

4,73,150

4,41,567

-3.1%

-23.3%

-6.7%

1,51,20,783

1,35,70,008

1,58,62,087

-13.2%

-10.3%

16.9%

-12

124

725

-101.3%

1133.3%

484.7%

1,86,20,233

1,76,17,606

2,12,04,162

-13.6%

-5.4%

20.4%

34,99,450

40,47,598

53,42,075

-15.2%

15.7%

32.0%

Mopeds
2W
Quadricycle
Total Domestic
Total Domestic (Excl. 2W)

TRACTOR INDUSTRY IN FY 2022-23

The long-term growth outlook for the Indian tractor industry
remains positive. Over the period F07 to F23, the domestic tractor
industry grew at a CAGR of 6%. The key growth drivers were
increasing affordability, growing demand for farm mechanisation,
emergence of newer technologies in the farming sector, and
continued focus of Government on improving the state of
agriculture in India.

Indian tractor industry with an annual sale of 9.45 lakh unit in F23,
recorded its highest ever annual sales. The year saw a growth of
around 12.2% over F22. However, exports dropped by ~3% YoY and
can be partly attributed to high base of last year when the industry
witnessed steep growth of around 45% YoY.

ANNUAL SALE

INDIAN
TRACTOR
INDUSTRY

9.45

LAKH UNIT IN F23

12.2%

TRACTOR INDUSTRY

Growth
Over F22

HIGHEST EVER
ANNUAL SALES

115

Amidst several disruptions in the global agricultural commodity
market, Indian agriculture stood strong and resilient. Positive gains
were witnessed with rising crop prices, adequate rainfall in most part
of the country supported crop output. The rural sentiments
remained buoyant during the peak sowing months, with significant
surge in GoI spending in rural sector during the Rabi sowing months
and continued focus to institutionalise agriculture credit. The year
also witnessed revival in demand from commercial segment which
was tepid during previous year.

Increase in allocation of Government budget on infrastructure and
rural development is likely to benefit commercial demand, going
forward. In addition to demand remaining buoyant, supply situation
also eased during F23 as raw material and labour shortage which
affected the industry in the previous years, saw normalisation.

Your Company's share in Domestic Tractor Industry
stood at 41.2% in F23.

YOUR COMPANY'S PERFORMANCE
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
During the year under review, your Company in India is the:

4th Largest

No.3

No.1

No.1

Passenger Vehicle
Company

SUV Maker
by Volume

SUV Maker
by Revenue

Commercial Vehicle
Exporter

Your Company's share of the
total Indian Auto Industry stood at

nd

2 Largest
Commercial Vehicle
Company

12.6%

For the year under review, your Company
achieved highest ever overall volumes of

6,66,349 vehicles

in the domestic market, a growth of 53.9%
over the previous year.

Your Company also clocked
the highest ever
annual sales of its SUVs at

Largest

3,56,961 units,

Small Commercial
Vehicle Company (<3.5T)

with a growth of 59.6% over
the previous year

and also recorded

highest ever
production
at the Kandivali
and Chakan plants.

116

The table below summarises the performance of your Company across various Industry segments:
Industry Segment

M&M

Industry
F23

Growth

F23

Utility Vehicles

20,03,718

34.5%

Passenger Cars

17,47,376

19.1%

MPV (Vans)

1,39,020

Passenger Vehicles

M&M Market Share
Growth

F23

F22

3,56,961

59.6%

17.8%

15.0%

214

262.7%

0.0%

0.0%

22.7%

2,078

-3.5%

1.5%

1.9%

38,90,114

26.7%

3,59,253

59.0%

9.2%

7.4%

LCV Goods < 2T GVW

1,92,982

12.6%

40,419

26.2%

20.9%

18.7%

LCV Goods 2-3.5T GVW

3,31,655

31.6%

1,98,121

42.9%

59.7%

55.0%

LCV Goods < 3.5T

5,24,637

23.9%

2,38,540

39.8%

45.5%

40.3%

34,513

5.8%

1,959

11.9%

5.7%

5.4%

LCV Goods Total

5,59,150

22.6%

2,40,499

39.5%

43.0%

37.8%

M+ICV Goods (7.5 to 18.5T)

1,03,485

19.4%

1,657

46.0%

1.6%

1.3%

HCV Goods > 18.5T

2,17,108

52.8%

4,742

39.1%

2.2%

2.4%

MHCV Goods

3,20,593

40.1%

6,399

40.8%

2.0%

2.0%

LCV Passenger

44,315

122.1%

1,678

1090.1%

3.8%

0.7%

LCV Goods > 3.5T GVW

CV Passenger

44,315

122.1%

1,678

1090.1%

3.8%

0.7%

CV Total

9,24,058

31.1%

2,48,576

40.3%

26.9%

25.1%

3W

4,88,768

87.0%

58,520

94.6%

12.0%

11.5%

Total Domestic

53,02,940

31.4%

6,66,349

53.9%

12.6%

10.7%

In F23, your Company launched the Scorpio-N, which is built on the new third-generation body-on-frame platform. It offers a disruptive customervalue proposition with its unmissable presence, spirited performance, sci-fi technology and world-class safety. It is also one of India's safest
vehicles, having received a 5-star safety rating from Global NCAP, and has garnered 24 awards from the media and auto community. The launch
recorded 1,00,000 bookings for the All-New Scorpio-N within 30 minutes of the booking commencement and also recorded 25,000 bookings
within one minute of the booking commencement.

25,000
BOOKINGS
within
1 minute

117

Your Company also launched the Scorpio Classic, the new avatar of its iconic brand Scorpio. Over 20 years, the Scorpio has attained legendary
status and has represented the tough and authentic DNA of your Company's SUVs. The Scorpio Classic, which retains the silhouette of the
original Scorpio, now offers a refreshed design, enhanced performance, improved ride quality and built-in technology.

In August 2022, your Company announced the Born Electric Vision,
which aims to bring electric offerings to the Company's portfolio. On
15th August, 2022, your Company unveiled five electrifying SUVs
under two brands based on the Born Electric INGLO platform at the
M.A.D.E Design Studio in the UK. The manifestation of these two
brands has been showcased via five e-SUVs: the XUV.e8, XUV.e9,
BE.05, BE.07, and BE.09. The first four of these are planned to be
launched between 2024 and 2026.

Later, in February 2023, your Company unveiled the Rall-E concept
at the EV Fashion Festival in Hyderabad during India's 1st Formula E
race weekend and celebrated the first showcase in India for the
BE.05 and XUV.e9.
The event showcased the Company's commitment to electric
mobility and its plans to launch a new range of electric SUVs in the
Indian market.

Your Company took the wraps off the fun and fast XUV400 electric
SUV on the eve of World EV Day - 9th September, 2022. The XUV400 is
the first EV from your Company to feature the copper-finish Twin
Peaks logo, giving it a distinctive presence on the road. Launched on
Republic Day 2023, the XUV400 recorded over 10,000 bookings on
the Extended Republic Day Weekend. The XUV400 is built on the
tough GNCAP 5-star rated XUV300 platform and is the widest Csegment SUV, offering occupants class-leading safety and comfort.

118

The XUV400 powered by a high-capacity 39.4 kWh lithium-ion battery, delivers an anxiety-free range of 456 kilometers as per Indian driving
cycle standards (Modified Indian Driving Cycle [MIDC]).

On 7th October, 2022, your Company launched the XUV300 TurboSport™ series, the first SUV of your Company to be powered by an all-new 1.2 L
mStallion TGDi engine that boasts unrivaled performance and an over-boost capability for momentary peak torque as high as 250 Nm.

119

In January 2023, your Company introduced an all-new range of the Thar, making it accessible to a wider range of thrill-seekers. Additionally, in
March, your Company announced a production milestone of 1,00,000 units for the All-new Thar.

All the new launches, product updates, and Future EV Vision
announcement have successfully helped your Company to maintain
No. 1 Position in Brand Power in F23.
Your Company's Bolero SUV has crossed the 1 lakh mark in sales
in F23, marking a significant milestone. Also, since its introduction
in 2000, the Bolero has sold over 14,00,000 units across India.

No. 1
Position

No. 1
Position

Sold

42.9%

Your Company has retained No. 1 position in LCV <3.5T segment
which is largest segment of CV industry for the nine consecutive
years with 45.5% market share. LCV <3.5T goods account for 55% of
the total CV industry.

in Brand Power
in F23

1,98,121

Pickup sub-segment
Vehicles

in LCV <3.5T
segment

Growth
Over F22

In the Pickup sub-segment (LCV goods 2 to 3.5T), your Company sold
1,98,121 vehicles, a growth of 42.9% over the previous year. Your
Company's market share in the pickup segment stands at 59.7%
compared with 55% over last year. Your Company has been the
leader in the pickup segment for over 20 years, and it has always
been your Company's endeavour to enhance the Customer Value
Proposition of its offering. In August, 2022, your Company launched
the Bolero Maxx Pik-Up City 3000, a new brand of futuristic pickups
catering to the transport and logistics needs of modern India. The
launch of the Bolero Maxx Pik-Up marked a significant milestone in
the light commercial vehicle (LCV) segment, as it came with
advanced connected technology - iMaXX telematics solution,
segment leading comfort and safety, several enhanced features,
power, maximum payload capacities and higher mileage. Your
Company also updated the Bolero Pik-Up range with Bolero Maxx
Pik-Up range in April, 2023.

120

In <2T segment, the Company sold 40,419 vehicles, a growth of
26.2% over the previous year. The Company's market share grew by
2.3% over last year and stands at 20.9% in <2T segment. In August,
2022, your Company launched the 'New Jeeto Plus CNG CharSau', an
addition to its existing Jeeto Plus range that promises to set new
standards in fuel efficiency and mileage.

LMM
In the Last Mile Mobility (LMM) segment, your Company sold 58,626
passenger and goods three-wheelers, a growth of 94%, with a
market share of 12% in F23 vs 11.5% in F22. Your Company has a
wide range of offerings inclusive of electric, CNG, diesel and petrol
products with the latest addition being the all-new cargo electric
three-wheeler Zor Grand electric. The Zor Grand is superior in
performance, mileage, and overall earning potential, and has been
widely accepted by customers across the country. The unwavering
trust in the Mahindra Zor Grand has been enabled by strong in-house
competencies in the areas of battery, motor and telematics backed
by rigorous validation and experience of putting more than 50,000+
three-wheeler EVs on the road.

58,626
3-wheelers
sold

PRODUCTION MILESTONES
Your Company's Chakan Plant produced highest ever 2.5 lakh
vehicles in F23 and crossed 16 lakh vehicles since inception. The
Haridwar Plant Crossed 13 lakh vehicles since inception and crossed
50,000 vehicles milestone of e-Alfa Platforms in F23.

Your Company is the pioneer for Electric Vehicles (EVs) in India, and
for the year under review, sold 46,109 EVs (2,416 four wheelers and
43,693 three wheelers) as against 17,006 EVs (61 four wheelers and
16,945 three wheelers) in the previous year. Your Company is
committed to achieve sustainability targets with strong growth plan
and lead the EV revolution from the front.

Chakan Plant
crossed

Haridwar Plant
crossed

vehicles since
inception

vehicles since
inception

16 lakh

13 lakh

121

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR TRUCK & BUS DIVISION

EXPORT FROM INDIA AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR

Your Company recorded phenomenal growth of 56% over last year
achieving 10,036 volumes. The Q4 F23 resulted in EBDITA positive
for your Company. Your Company launched the CRUZIO range of
Buses which was declared as 'CV-Staff Bus Of The Year' at Apollo CV
Awards 2022.

The Automotive Sector of your Company exported a total of 32,107
vehicles in F23, becoming the No. 1 CV Exporter (as per SIAM
definition) in India for the year. Growth in regions of Africa, ANZ and
Middle East offset the impact of headwinds from South Asia. The
subsidiaries in South Africa and Australia delivered a growth of over
50% in retail and stood among the fastest growing brands in their
respective countries.

Your Company took its SUVs,
XUV700 and Scorpio-N to global
markets with launches in South
Africa, Australia, New Zealand and
Nepal. With improved product mix
of the global portfolio, your
Company delivered export
revenue growth over last year.

Your Company continues to enhance its presence and participation in
global markets with its range of SUVs and commercial vehicles. Your
Company is among the top 5 brands in South Africa in the pickup
segment by volume and market share.

MAHINDRA CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT (MCE)
In the Construction Equipment industry in the Backhoe Loader
segment, your Company sold 1,424 machines, a growth of 50% over
the previous year. Your Company launched the New Grader Smart
G75, which helped your Company to become No. 2 player in Motor
Grader with 21.3% (+9%) market share. Your Company saw 90%
improvement in EBDITA with 3 quarters ending up with positive
EBDITA.

122

FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
Your Company achieved several milestones with robust demand for
tractors and farm equipment, and sound execution of plans. Demand
from global and domestic tractor markets was extraordinary, and
with the right efforts made in this business, your Company is ready to
seize those opportunities to the best of its abilities.
For the period under review, your Company sold a total of 4,07,545
tractors (domestic plus export), under the Mahindra, Swaraj and
Trakstar brands, against 3,54,698 tractors sold in the previous year,
registering a 14.9% growth.

Farm Mechanisation is an important enabler to address the concerns
of farm productivity and farm labour shortage. Your Company has
aggressive plans to grow its Farm Machinery business, through
launch of 'Made in India' farm machinery products. These include
rotary tillers, harvesters and rice transplanters amongst others.

During the year, Mahindra Farm
Machinery clocked highest ever
revenue with YoY 40% growth.
This growth was driven by record
performance in rotary tillers
where your Company achieved
nd
2 position by market share.
Additionally, threshers and superseeder have grown signiﬁcantly to
achieve record volume in F23.

During the year, your Company launched new Heavy Rotavator and
Supervator which helped the volumes grow significantly. Your
Company has also improved Wheel Harvester attractiveness through
technology and emission upgrades.

Your Company sold 3,89,531 tractors, as compared to 3,37,052
tractors in the previous year in domestic market (these figures for
the current year sales and previous year sales include tractors sold
by Gromax Agri Equipment Limited, a subsidiary of the Company),
growing by 15.6%, as against the industry growth of 12.2%. The year
marks the highest ever tractor volumes sales achieved by your
Company.

Your Company's
F23 market share
at 41.2% continues
to position it as the
domestic market
leader for the 40th
consecutive year.
Your Company's
performance was
supported by good
performance of all
products in the
portfolio across all
three brands viz.
Mahindra, Swaraj
and Trakstar.

CODE (multi-purpose farm mechanisation solution to transform
horticulture farming), was launched in F22 by Swaraj Tractors and
has grown significantly in F23 and contributed to the strong
performance.

TRACTORS

123

Additionally, during the year, your Company completed acquisition of
MITRA Agro Equipments Private Limited (M.I.T.R.A) by increasing its
shareholding from the existing 47.33% to 100%, making it a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company. This acquisition will strengthen
our Farm Machinery product portfolio with spraying solutions.
The Company has set up a dedicated new plant at Pithampur spread
over 23 acres with a capacity to manufacture 1,200 combine
harvesters and 3,300 rice transplanters per year.
Going forward, Mahindra will continue to launch new implements and
farm machinery in the country through our Centres of Expertise
(CoEs) in Turkey, Finland and Japan (where your Company, over the
years, has created footprints through strategic stakes and
acquisitions). The objective is to bring all those products, engineered
and further developed for Indian conditions and Indian prices for the
Indian farmer.

ALLIED BUSINESSES
MAHINDRA POWEROL
Under the Powerol brand, your Company has been a leader in
providing power back-up solutions to the telecom industry for more
than 15+ years. Your Company continues to consolidate its presence
in the tele-infra management space. Alongside Telecom, Powerol has
been increasing the retail market share, especially with the
extension in HkVA range. With the introduction of CPCB 4+ for
gensets, Powerol is gearing up for the transition.

Besides rolling out new products, your Company is also focussing on:

Dealer Penetration,
Ensuring Supply Chain Ramp Up,
Ensuring Aggressive Pricing of our
products,
Working with partners to strengthen our
offerings in the space,

Powerol stands at No. 2 brand by
volume in the overall Diesel Genset
power back-up segment.

Other enablers like Financing,
Digitisation and Service Quality.

EXPORT FROM INDIA FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
For the year under review, your
Company achieved a record of the
highest ever volume and revenue
by exporting 18,014 Tractors.

This growth can be attributed to higher retails in several markets
where your Company has distribution operations including the USA,
Brazil, Bangladesh, Australia and various African markets like Mali,
Tanzania. The Company has also made significant growth in business
through tenders and bulk orders from markets like Benin, Kenya,
Guyana, etc.

Powerol's move towards sustainability has led to the introduction of
the gas-powered gensets with introduction of 5 nodes between
15kVA to 315kVA. They offer lower operating costs and low
emissions complying to the new emission norms.
Powerol has also initiated EV Charger business for Home Charger
Installations. The rising demand of electricity will be a boom for the
energy sector in near future. This is an opportunity for the Company
to grow its offerings into energy solution business.

CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
During the year under review, your Company (under the Mahindra
EarthMaster brand) sold 989 Backhoe Loaders (BHLs), a 36%
increase from 729 sold in F22. Your Company also has a presence in
the road construction equipment business through motor graders
(under the Mahindra RoadMaster brand).
For the year under review, your Company sold 188 motor graders, a
61% increase from the 117 sold in F22.

124

Your Company also has a presence in the Sugar Cane Haulage
market (under the Mahindra HaulMaster brand) in the export
market. For the year under review, your Company sold 247 Haulage
Tractors, a 135% increase from the 105 sold in F22. The BHL
industry grew by 28% and the motor grader industry grew by 42%
due to increased focus from the Government of India on
infrastructure.

TWO-WHEELER SEGMENT
In line with the strategy for the two-wheeler business, your Company
through its subsidiary, Classic Legends Private Limited (CLPL) had
reintroduced the iconic brand 'Jawa' to the Indian market in F19, with
the launch of new range of JAWA motorcycles - Jawa and Jawa FortyTwo and strengthening of portfolio by adding Yezdi in F22. During
F23, 42 Bobber was introduced to the Indian market and in addition,
CLPL forayed into international market by introducing iconic British
brand BSA in UK and European market.

a result of supply shortage of semiconductors in first half of F23 and
time taken for rural recovery compared to pre-pandemic.
To reduce dependence on oil imports, the industry is exploring
options of alternate fuels like CNG, LNG, Ethanol, etc. The industry is
also exploring options of flex fuel vehicles in the near future. The
industry is also investing in next generation technologies like electric
vehicles and hydrogen.
The Government introduced Production Linked Incentive (PLI)
Scheme for Automobile, Auto Components, ACC (Advanced
Chemistry Cells) and Semiconductors to overcome the cost
disabilities of the industry for manufacture of Advanced Automotive
Technology products in India. The Government has recognised
Electric Vehicle technology and Hydrogen Fuel Cell technology as an
Advanced Automotive Technology in the country.

FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
To drive sustainable growth in the agriculture sector, strong
Government focus on its development has led to increased adoption
of mechanisation and modern agricultural practices, along with rural
development at large.
However, India, with its large base of small and marginal farmers, has
several regions with low penetration of farm mechanisation. With
increasing labour cost and labour scarcity, greater adoption of
various forms of mechanisation is the way forward. In this scenario,
the market for tractors and other farm equipment is expected to
grow in the long term.

ALLIED BUSINESSES

OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS

The rising demand for power backup solutions and infrastructure
development will create opportunities in the power generation and
infrastructure equipment space. This is an opportunity for the
Company to grow its offerings in power solutions and construction
equipment.

AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Indian automotive industry has been christened as a sunrise sector
and champion industry due to the immense contribution the industry
makes to the Indian economy. The automotive industry's turnover is
7.1% of India's GDP and 49% of manufacturing GDP.
In F23, the Indian auto industry has shown double digit growth across
all segments. Passenger vehicles have reached new highest ever
mark with 3.89 million sales units while commercial vehicles are still
below F19 levels by 4.5%. Indian auto industry sales (excluding twowheelers) have recorded highest ever sales of 5.3 million units with
15.7% YoY growth. Partial recovery of Auto Industry was principally

RISKS AND CONCERNS
AUTOMOTIVE AND
FARM EQUIPMENT SECTORS
The Company's business is exposed to many internal and external
risks and it has consequently put in place robust systems and
processes, along with appropriate review mechanisms to actively
monitor, manage and mitigate these risks.

125

COMPETITIVE INTENSITY
Keeping in mind the high growth potential of the Indian automotive
market, all OEMs, homegrown as well as MNCs, have presence across
all vehicle segments. Today, multinational OEMs are deeply
entrenched in the Indian market with local development centres, a
strong local supplier base and good channel penetration. In the PV
segment, the differentiation between cars and UVs is largely blurred.
The industry has seen shift in demand from cars to UVs. This has led
to more number of launches in UVs compared with cars.

In F23, every second
passenger vehicle
sold was utility
vehicle. 1 million UV
sales were crossed
in F20 and it took
just 3 years to cross
2 million mark
annual sales.

2

million
sales

LCV Goods < 3.5T now accounts for 55% of total CV sales in F23 vs
51% in F19 and 44% in F16. Industry < 3.5T has recovered to F19
level driven by 2-3.5T sales. The industry has crossed 5 lakh mark
after 4 years. With the aim to remain competitive in the market and
sustain its leadership position, your Company continues to invest in
new product development, technology upgradations, increasing
channel reach, while focussing on delivering customer centric
products, services and brand building.

TAX REGULATIONS

India remains a medium-to-high HP tractor market, with over 80 per
cent of sales coming from the 30-50 HP categories. The revised
emission norms - TREM IV applicable only to tractor over 50 HP from
January 2023, have impacted around 7-8 per cent of the overall
industry volumes. To meet the challenges associated with TREM IV,
your Company has realigned its product portfolio, through the
launch of new products, along with upgrades of existing ones.

NEW REGULATION FOR SAFETY
Concerns over road safety are driving legislation and regulatory
reforms. Any new legislation requires technology development and
incurs costs, in turn impacting vehicle prices. Your Company is geared
up and is confident of meeting any new regulations introduced.

NEW PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES
Your Company has a comprehensive programme for development of
new products and technologies which will enable it to remain
competitive in the market, cater to emerging customer expectations
and meet any legislative requirements. Along with Electrification,
your Company is also working on alternate fuels technology.

ENVIRONMENT AND ALTERNATE FUELS
With concerns over air quality and the need to reduce dependence on
fossil fuels, the Government is actively pursuing large scale adoption
of EVs, especially for intracity uses in fleet application. Your Company
is a pioneer for Electric Vehicles in India and is actively pursuing
development of the Electric Vehicle (EV) market, products and
technology. Along with Electrification, your Company is also working
on alternate fuels technology.

India has traditionally seen tax rate differential between small and
large passenger vehicles. This differential is based on length of the
vehicle, engine size and fuel type. While the flagship products of your
Company attract higher tax rates, your Company has strengthened
the UV product portfolio attracting lower tax rates with products like
XUV300, Bolero Neo, Bolero Power Plus, Thar and KUV100. XUV400
attracts minimum GST among all passenger vehicle categories.

NEW EMISSION NORMS
The Company has successfully transitioned to BS6 phase 2 emission
norms across all its portfolio products well in time. In its commitment
to improve fuel efficiency and reduce the overall carbon footprint
(CAFÉ 2), the Company has adopted advanced combustion
technologies and right product level electrification strategy.
In India, the emission standards for tractors and construction
equipment are regulated separately from the broader automobile
industry.

MONSOON
A normal monsoon is important for both agriculture as well as the
rural economy at large.

126

The tractor business in particular, and the automotive business to
some degree, run the risk of a drop in demand, in case of a significant
variation in the monsoon. In addition, an untimely monsoon and
uneven spread has the potential of adversely impacting the
business.

POTENTIAL EL-NINO IMPACT
Going into F24, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in its
long range forecast for the monsoon season predicted South-West
Monsoon (June to September) to be normal at 96% of the LPA (Long
Period Average).
However, with the concerns of El-Nino there is possibility of either
spatial or temporal distribution disruption.
Nevertheless, given that reservoir levels in May, 2023 were 23%
higher than average, and that there has been excess rainfall in premonsoon months, the potential El-Nino impact is not expected to
cause a major disruption.

CAPACITY
In the Automotive Segment, your Company has increased capacity of
SUVs from 28,000 in F22 exit to 39,000 by end of F23 to cater to
continued robust demand for new launches and clear existing
bookings and reduce waiting period for the new launches.
In the Farm Equipment Sector, your Company has built adequate
manufacturing capacity for the immediate future and is in the
process of investing in additional capacity as part of its mid to longterm strategy. We reached a number of milestones in F23. Mahindra's
Tractor factories in Zaheerabad and Rudrapur produced the
st
st
3,00,001 and 8,00,001 tractors respectively, while the Rudrapur
th
facility also produced its 9,50,000 gearbox. As it prepares to open
its new manufacturing facility in Mohali, Swaraj Tractors produced its
two millionth tractor. A further 17.41% stake of Swaraj Engines
Limited (SEL) was acquired by your Company from Kirloskar
Industries Limited (KIL). As a result, we now own 52.13% of SEL,
making SEL a subsidiary of the Company. During the year, we also
launched our first exclusive farm machinery (non-tractor) plant in
the industrial city of Pithampur, Madhya Pradesh, enabling the
Company to manufacture durable, high-quality, affordable and
accessible 'Made in India, for India' farm machinery, marketed in both
the Mahindra and Swaraj brands.

COMMODITY PRICES
Commodity prices in F23 were volatile. In the first quarter, steel
prices rose sharply due to supply concerns caused by Russia-Ukraine
conflict. However, from June 2022 onwards, prices softened on
account of easing supply concerns and weak economic outlook due
to interest rate increases by major Central Banks. Additionally, there
was pressure on Indian steel prices due to levy of export duties on
key raw materials and products. Subsequently from December 2022
onwards, prices firmed up due to expectations of demand growth
driven by withdrawal of Zero-COVID policy by the Chinese
Government and removal of export duties by the Indian Government.
Your Company stayed focussed on cost reduction through measures
like VA/VE, negotiation with suppliers, long-term price contracting,
etc.
Your Company continues to watch the market situation closely and
continues to focus on mitigating commodity price volatility through
"Commodity Risk Management".

Production Milestones
Zaheerabad
Factory

Rudrapur
Factory

3,00,001

8,00,001

Swaraj Tractors Factory

20,00,000

127

OUTLOOK - AUTOMOTIVE
AND FARM SECTORS
Both the Automotive and Farm Sectors strive to sustain profitable
growth, maintain leadership position in the domestic market and at
the same time, explore global opportunities for growth.
Simultaneously, your Company continues its focus on achieving cost
leadership through focussed cost optimisation, productivity
improvements, value engineering, supply chain management, and
exploiting synergies between various group businesses.

Factors that will significantly impact demand for automobiles in
F24 are:

Supply shortage of
semiconductors in
first half of F24

Policies by the
Government to
boost consumption

Aggressive
Government push
for infrastructure
led growth

Increase in cost of
ownership due to
commodity price and
fuel price increase

AUTOMOTIVE BUSINESS

TRACTOR AND
FARM EQUIPMENT BUSINESS

As per the Automotive Mission
Plan 2026 (AMP 2026), the mid
to long-term outlook for the
Indian auto industry is positive.
Hon'ble Prime Minister unveiled
Indian Auto Industry Vision @ 100
mentioning Auto Industry is the
engine of economic growth.

In F23, the Indian auto industry has shown double digit growth across
all segments. Passenger vehicles have reached new highest ever
mark with 3.89 million sales units while commercial vehicles are still
below F19 levels by 4.5%.

The mid to long-term outlook for the Indian tractor industry is
positive. Several initiatives taken by the Government are driving
higher rural incomes. Examples being higher diversification towards
high value crops, agriculture accelerator fund to promote
technological advancement in agriculture, expansion of non-farm
income opportunities, etc. In addition, increase in allocation of
Government budgets on infrastructure and rural development is
likely to benefit commercial demand. Further, the demand for
mechanisation is also growing as shortage of agricultural labour will
lead to increase in labour cost. Several enabling factors supporting
industry growth, like, institutional credit, consolidation of farm
holdings by FPOs, etc. have shown a positive trend in the last few
years. Increase in leasing of land from 10% in early 2000s to 17% in
2018-19 and Government subsidy for mechanisation will support
the growth of the sector. An increasing trend of more farmers taking
technical advice in agriculture, also reflects the growth of
progressive farmers.
However, the past trends of the tractor industry depict a picture of
strong cyclicality. Every 3-4 years growth in the industry is followed
with a drop or slow-down. On an average, in the last 10 years, industry

128

saw a growth of 5-6% annually and monsoon plays a critical role in
defining the cyclical nature of the industry and therefore remains a
key monitorable. Going into F24, the Indian Meteorological
Department (IMD) in its first long range forecast for the monsoon
season predicted SW Monsoon (June to September) to be normal at
96% of the LPA (Long Period Average). However, with the growing
concerns of El-Nino, there is possibility of disruptions either in spatial
or temporal distribution.
Reservoir levels in May, 2023 were 23% higher than average.
Adequate water in reservoirs coupled with excess rainfall in the premonsoon months of March to May supported irrigated lands.
However, the above-normal heat wave days in May, 2023 over most
parts of Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal, East Uttar
Pradesh, coastal Andhra Pradesh and some parts of North
Chhattisgarh, East Madhya Pradesh, Telangana and coastal Gujarat
caused some disruption in land preparation activity before the Kharif
sowing months.

We showcased our audacious vision for the future of electric mobility
with the unveiling of our new state-of-the-art EV platform INGLO and
five new production-ready e-SUVs under two EV brands (Mahindra
Twin Peak and BE).
Your Company is constantly leveraging multiple emerging
technologies, including EVs, digital-enabled platforms and HMI with
software-defined vehicles and is upskilling its product design
engineers in evolving fields of data science, AI, IoT, mechatronics, and
so on, to aid in the development of new products. Mahindra Research
Valley, the flagship R&D and innovation centre has been granted 210
patents, the highest number of patents to any Indian Original
Equipment Manufacturer ("OEM"), from across the globe in the last
six quarters, which is testimony to the cutting-edge work being done
by its diverse and talented workforce.

Nevertheless, a normal monsoon outlook and water reservoir level
better than 10-year average will be positives for the farming sector.
Macroeconomic tailwinds mostly remain intact for the rural
economy, and with likely higher Government support, particularly
with 6 states going for elections, this bodes well for tractor demand.

STRATEGY
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Your Company is India's #1 SUV player in Revenue Market Share.
The Scorpio-N launch has been very successful, followed by electric
C-SUV XUV400. The LCV <3.5T witnessed very strong momentum
with PIK-UPs and the successful launch of Maxx PIK-UP. The EV 3Ws
hit record sales and a dominant market leadership position with
~65% share.

In line with our EV vision, we
announced to make investments
of INR 10 thousand crore over a
horizon of 7-8 years through our
subsidiaries. These investments
shall be for setting up the
manufacturing facility,
development, and production of
our upcoming Electric Vehicles.

We reinforced our vision by setting-up Mahindra Electric Automobile
Limited ("MEAL"), valued at USD 9 billion (INR 70 thousand crores)
with an investment from British International Investment ("BII"). In
parallel, Last Mile Mobility ("LMM") is following suit with a valuation
of INR 6 thousand crores with International Finance Corporation
("IFC") investing in the LMM segment to further the purpose of
electrification.

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) is a key priority for the
Company. We have increased share of renewable power usage while
achieving goals of manufacturing emissions and power intensity. We
continue to be the only Indian Auto OEM in Dow Jones Sustainability
Index (DJSI) Ranking.
The Company plans to capitalise on its strengths and the upcycle
across SUVs and CVs over the next few years. Of the 13 new
launches, we plan to launch 8 New EVs by 2027 that will comprise
20% of our volume.

FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
During the year, your Company entered the next phase of growth
amid heightened competition and disruption based on new
technologies and trends, with farm mechanisation gaining more and
more traction. During the year, Mahindra launched various new
tractor models, as well as new implements and farm machinery in the
country through collaboration with our COEs in Turkey, Finland and
Japan (where M&M, over the years, has created footprints through
strategic stakes and acquisitions).
In F23, the Company also set up a dedicated new farm machinery
plant in Pithampur. The new farm machinery plant has state-of-theart machinery, which work together seamlessly to produce highquality farm equipment.

129

KRISH-E
Your Company's Farming-as-a-Service business (branded Krish-e) is
an innovative new business vertical conceived with the idea of
ushering in a new digital age of farming in India. Carrying the tag line 'Expert Takneek. Naye Upay. Parinaam Dikhaye' - Krish-e aims to
increase farmer income through digitally enabled services, across
the complete crop cycle - services that are progressive, affordable
and accessible to farmers.

In F23, over 15,000 Takneek plots were operated where farmers saw
an average income per acre increase ranging from Rs. 5,000-Rs.
15,000 per acre (basis crop type and region).
Krish-e saw a significant increase in the adoption of its 'Smart
Harvesting Solution for Sugarcane' Technology, as Sugar Mills from
across the country utilised Krish-e's state-of-the-art Artificial
Intelligence and Satellite based Remote Sensing powered solution to
accurately predict sugar recovery and yield for over 50,000 acres,
and to harvest sugarcane based on Smart Insights.
In partnership with the AgTech start-up Carnot Technologies, your
Company has made significant progress in scaling the presence of
the unique IoT solution - Krish-e smart kit (KSK). Developed as a plug
and play and brand agnostic IoT kit for the after-market, the KSK
enables rental focussed equipment owners to track their assets in
real time. In F23, 17,000 such kits were sold and installed, leading to
an installed base of nearly 30,000 in India.

17,000
During the year, Krish-e has expanded its on-ground presence and
now has a presence in 16 states, through 150 Krish-e centres, all of
which deliver physical and digital farm advisory services and sell
both farm equipment and equipment IoT solutions. Many of the
centres also offer farm equipment on a rental basis and sell a range
of crop inputs including agrochemicals, bio-fertilizers and seeds.

kits sold
and installed

MATERIAL DEVELOPMENTS IN
HUMAN RESOURCES AND
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
'PEOPLE CONVERSATIONS'

16

States

150

Centres

To trigger changes in farmer behaviour, Krish-e deploys on-ground
advisory activities along with a digital advisory app on Krish-e
Takneek plots (1 acre demonstration plots). Together they deliver
significant and tangible increases in farmer income per acre, building
trust and local relationships thus, facilitating the sale of farm
equipment and inputs.

The heart of the talent management process is regular and
intentional conversations on talent across the group, both at a
business level and at a Group level. The Company's talent
management process focusses on building succession strength,
creating development journeys and learning interventions to attract,
retain and develop top talent across the Group. At the Group level,
this process is anchored through 'People Conversations' to provide
an overview of talent across the Group and enable talent movements
across sectors basis individual strengths and aspirations. Each sector
anchors talent management and talent development through the
respective Sector Talent Councils.

130

THE MAHINDRA LEADERSHIP UNIVERSITY

University and leading consulting firms. The Future
Shapers will graduate in Q1 of F24 and once again
through active talent management conversations
we have already started deploying them across the
Group. We are also excited to report that the next
batch of Future Shapers will embark on their
development journey from Q1 of F24.

Your Mahindra Leadership University (MLU) has consistently
delivered impact through high velocity programs over the course of
F23. In F22, we re-defined out operating model to become a centre of
excellence for leadership development. In FY23, we have delivered
on this mandate through multiple programmes across a range of
critical areas. The inputs from the 'People Conversations', periodic
connects with the CEOs and CHROs, and our focus on market
scanning feeds into the Mahindra Leadership University through
which we offered flagship Leadership Development Initiatives:

Mahindra Accelerated Leadership Track: Our
ongoing strategic alliance with Carnegie Mellon
University to develop an accelerator programme
Mahindra Accelerated Leadership Track (MALT) is
now in its second year. This track seeks to identify
mid-career high potential talent from within that will
occupy key decision-making roles across our group
business in the next 12 to 24 months. The first batch
of 33 associates or MALTees graduated in January
2023, and we are now undertaking active talent
management for them to shape their careers. The
second batch of 42 associates started their yearlong journey in January, 2023.

We kicked off the "Mahindra Future Shapers"
programme with the intent to identify our next
generation leadership pipeline and strengthen their
capabilities. The programme is being delivered
through our long-term strategic tie-up with Harvard

F23 also saw the launch of focussed initiatives to
strengthen our support and enabling functions
through development programs targeted at creating
the next generation of functional leaders. We are
pleased to report that the Future HR Leaders
Program (with an intent to identify the next
generation of HR CXOs) successfully concluded in
F23 and the Emerging Finance Leaders Program
(with an intent to identify the next generation of
Finance CXOs) has kicked off in the last quarter of
F23. The EFLP program will continue to run over the
course of F24 and we will deliver this in partnership
with a leading leadership consulting firm and Indian
Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.

Mahindra Leadership University's performance in numbers for VITLs-

Number of
programmes conducted

Number of
learning hours

31

20,752

Number of
learners served

Average
Feedback

764

4.6

131

Our performance in numbers for digital courses on LXP Platform -

Number of learning items consumed

10,00,000+

Number of active users

NPS score

84,811+

73%

Highlights of the Academies
F23 was a remarkable year where globally, Mahindra
learners started to increase their focus on functional skill
development and the MLU academies rose to the occasion.
We conducted several skill development initiatives during
this time, a snapshot of them is as follows:
F23 also saw our academies pivot towards a skillsf irst a pproach towa rds delivering lea rning
interventions. We started the year by identifying the
core skills and proficiency levels across the Finance,
HR and Technology functions and followed this up by
launching targeted in-person and digital learning
journeys.
F23 saw the graduation of the first batch of Future
HR Leaders Programme, the intent is to build our
future HR Heads through a process of robust
leadership development and functional skill building
initiatives. In addition, we launched and delivered the
HR Unnati programme focussed at strengthening
the middle of our HR pyramid. Finally, we continue to
drive specific skill building programmes across the
entire range of HR topics to ensure that our HR
professionals stay ahead of the curve.
The Finance Academy of MLU successfully launched
the Emerging Finance Leaders programme in
partnership with the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad and a leading consulting firm. The intent
has been to develop the next generation of finance
leaders from within the Group. The Finance Academy
has also placed a strong focus on Controllership over
the course of the year and conducted several
programs across the Group companies.

Our Technology Academy continues to focus on
developing deep skills across a range of emerging
technology areas through a combination on inperson and online bootcamps.

Highlights of our
Digital Learning Initiatives
From F22 onwards, our focus has been to bring world class
digital learning content to our employees across all
management grades. To that effect, we entered into
strategic partnerships with key content partners such as
Udemy, HMM Spark etc. Furthermore, in order to make the
learning experience truly world class, we have also
launched the EdCast by Cornerstone, learning experience
platform for employees across a number of our Group
companies.
Our learning experience platform now consolidates our
various digital learning content providers under a single
umbrella for the learner and by leveraging the power of
artificial intelligence and machine learning, it is able to
provide highly personalised learning content to our
employees across the Group. Furthermore, we have been
able to leverage the platform well beyond standardised elearnings and this has led to both a high adoption rate as
well as learner NPS. In a short period of time, we have seen
approximately 90% adoption rate and more than 1 million
items of learning consumed. We believe this is a testament
to our skills first approach of capability development and
we anticipate further demand for learning content over
FY24.

RE-IMAGINING THE NASHIK CAMPUS
Our Nashik MLU campus is a world class facility built around the
modern learner. With multiple Mahindra plants and offices located in
a 100 km radius of this facility, the campus is generally a beehive of
activity! It is detached from the hustle bustle of the city life and is
surrounded by more than 650 trees, flora and fauna. Yet, because of
our digital first approach to learning, our learners are always
connected to the best learning resources always.

132

On an average, the campus hosts more than 9,000 learners each
year. Furthermore, the Nashik campus has world class classroom
facilities and has the ability to host more than 150 learners
simultaneously. While COVID-19 significantly restricted our use of
the campus, in F22, we also prepared the Nashik campus to welcome
back our learners to our piece of heaven.
Apart from the ongoing maintenance activities, we have now reimagined the entire classroom experience such that it creates a
seamless blended learning experience. Our digital classroom
connects with learners who are sitting in Nashik, Chennai, Mumbai
and/or at home such that the learning experience is not impacted.
This enables us to bring them world class faculty from within our
Group and outside at the touch of a button!
F23, saw a strong 'Back to Classroom' trend and MLU Nashik has
once again regained its prominence as the crown jewel of our
learning infrastructure. We hosted more than 8,700 learners over
the course of the year with an average score of 4.69 in terms of an incampus experience.

FUNCTIONAL TALENT ACCELERATORS
AT MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA
In the Mahindra Group, Talent Management is crucial and critical,
both from a business point of view and from a talent perspective.
Technical talent accelerators are equally important to build a
pipeline of business leaders.

The aforesaid initiative has helped to create global sustained
competitiveness and the Technical Ladder that was conceptualised
in MRV is a unique way of differentiating technical talent from
general management in terms of performance management, talent
management and capability building. It puts a high focus on
developing deep technical expertise in various systems of product
development.
The Technical Ladder implementation in Mahindra has been a
response to one of the biggest challenges that the Company has
been facing in Talent Management. The first step of technical ladder
was achieved by creating unique competencies, which combined
technical skills and leadership behaviours. These were deployed in
performance management discussions and capability building
initiatives. Specific development goals are now integrated into
training needs and Learning & Growth Plan (LGP) to facilitate
capability building of niche technical skills through right exposure,
and action learning projects.
The second step of technical ladder was to identify high potential
technical talent and develop them into future Technology Leaders
through a structured intervention. For the developmental journey,
we have tied-up with best-in-class organisations to support in Tech
Leap programme.

As a result, today the Tech Ladder
framework is successfully
catering to more than 2,000
engineers, covering multiple COEs
and Project Functions across the
Automotive and Farm Divisions.

PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Our performance management system is built on strong principles of
simplicity, accountability, empowerment, and meritocracy. It aligns
the individual efforts and energy with organisational priorities. It
creates a strong merit-based culture that rewards and encourages
outperformance. Leaders and managers are held accountable for
fostering an environment which encourages employees to
demonstrate the right behaviours and deliver outstanding results.

In our quest to build a healthy
pipeline of technical talent in
Product Development and the
related associated areas, the
Company set up the Mahindra
Research Valley (MRV), which
serves as a crucible for innovation
and technology for the Auto and
Farm Divisions of the Company.

The performance cycle is from 1st April to 31st March with a threestep process of Goal Setting, Mid-Year Review and Annual Appraisal.
Feedback/development conversations between people managers
and direct reports is key at every stage. A key highlight of our
performance system is that we no longer use overall appraisal
ratings. All key decisions (e.g., Promotions, Increments, Rewards, etc.)
are based on the individual's Goal Sheet / Performance Score and
Scores on Leadership Behaviours and discussions amongst the
talent panels appropriately constituted at different levels. Learning
& Growth Plan is a key tool in our performance management system
which aims at developing skills for current and future roles, and for
career growth for employees.

133

The overall objective of the performance management system is to
ensure an alignment between an individual's goals and the
organisation's goals and priorities, thereby enabling conversations at
every step of the process and actions towards enhancing
accountability and providing a base for a focussed career growth.
Lastly, this simple and transparent system aims not just to evaluate
and reward performance but also reinforces and drives the three key
Mahindra Leadership Behaviours of Collaboration, Agility and Bold in turn driving the right culture across.

During the year, we have driven leadership perspective sharing
sessions, conscious inclusion workshops, infrastructure correction
across our locations and established ERGs across prominent
locations. We have announced, e-accessibility on our social media
platforms the International Day of People with Disabilities, where all
our posts on social media carry image descriptions and closed
captions. We expect these steps to help us build more inclusive
culture going forward.

GROUP MANAGEMENT CADRE (GMC)
The next step of our strategic management process is the Group
Management Cadre programme to attract leadership talent at the
entry-level from top B-Schools of the country. This programme
continues to strengthen Mahindra's position as an 'Employer of
Choice' across premier B-School campuses and creates a strong
talent pool to drive Mahindra's future growth. Through this
programme, 21 GMCs joined the Group in 2022, and 31 GMCs will join
us in 2023 across various Sectors and functions. As part of the
Experiential Module, each GMC that joins us undergoes three stints
of 4 months across different functions and businesses. The Summer
Internship Programme has evolved over the years as a critical source
of the GMC talent pool, and this year we have 29 students who have
joined us from the top B-school of India under the GMC Summer
Internship Programme 2023.

Our special focus has been to improve gender diversity in areas of
technology and business operations which are also going to be thrust
areas for the Company.

Equal Opportunity Policy

GROUP DIVERSITY COUNCIL (GDC)
Diversity and Inclusion
The Group continues its strong focus on fostering Diversity and
Inclusion (D&I) at the workplace with the D&I Vision of -

M&M provides equal opportunity to all persons. There is no unfair
treatment in relation to the employment, promotion or other related
issues or termination of the employment for reasons of gender or
disability. Under this policy, we provide necessary training to the new
recruits to enable them to carry out their jobs effectively.
M&M works towards attracting, retaining, and developing diverse
talent through initiatives such as:

“We are an organisation which is committed
to Rise for a more equal world. We strive to
build a caring, fair and thriving culture
where individuals can bring their whole
selves to work and leverage their fullest
potential to create products and
experiences that count for our customers.”

We have been working with wider involvement across the
organisation, seeking inputs and deriving insights to drive the
objectives of D&I and to continue our journey of becoming a more
inclusive workplace. As a culmination of this exercise, a new D&I
Charter was rolled out with clearly articulated vision and beliefs.

Focussed Hiring
Structured hiring programmes to attract and recruit
diverse talent throu gh mindful a nd positive
communication as well as deeper engagement channels.
Our focus is women and PwD hiring and support, which is
done through specialised hiring consultants while
maintaining our core philosophy of meritocracy.

Talent Management
Prioritising career development of women at all levels with
access to senior leaders alongside opportunity to develop
new skills. Specific programmes like Hi-potential Women
mentoring for broadening capabilities of the women
employees make them ready for leadership roles.

134

For managerial band, women mentoring programme was
launched to enable career guidance and coaching from
senior leaders.

Skill building with a focus on future skills and
digitization
Critical attribute training for associates
Rise award for associates
Employee of the year programme for associates
Trainings on ethical behaviour, Code of Conduct and
Human Rights

Generation Valuable, a unique mentorship program under
Valuable 500, for people with disabilities to build the future
executive leadership and driving disability inclusion
through systematic change was launched.

Further, in our endeavour to improve quality, reduce cost, ensure
safety and improve productivity, our Company's shop floor
associates generated an average of 12 ideas per person during the
year.
To develop skills and foster togetherness at the workplace, multiple
training and engagement programmes were rolled out covering a
wide range of topics.

INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
PREVENTION OF SEXUAL
HARASSMENT AT WORKPLACE (POSH)
Awareness in this area has been created by a POSH campaign
reiterating Mahindra's commitment to providing a safe workplace for
all its employees. During the year, the Company organised
sensitisation and awareness programmes through inductions
training for new joinees, online e-modules for all employees,
including sending emailers, creating standees and posters to
sensitise all employees to conduct themselves in a professional
manner. Further, additional virtual and classroom trainings were
conducted by our Ethics Counsellors. The Company also organised
offline leadership conversations on gender sensitisation and
inclusions and employee interactive sessions including conscious
inclusions.

TRANSFORMATIONAL WORK CULTURE
The Transformational Work Culture initiative that aims to create an
engaged workforce with an innovative, productive and a competitive
shop-floor ecosystem, continues to grow in strength. Some of the
initiatives towards the same that are worth mentioning here are:

Creating a culture and ecosystem of self-managed
teams
Mindset transformation programme named 'Nayi soch
- Naya dristikon' for cell members and union leaders

The industrial relations scenario continued to be largely positive
across all the manufacturing locations. Long Term Wage and Bonus
settlements were closed amicably for all the plants. The sustained
efforts towards building a transformational work culture resulted in
zero production loss in the F23 and helped create a

C O L L A B O R AT I V E | H E A LT H Y |
PRODUCTIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT

Proactive and employee-centric
shop ﬂoor practices, a focus on
transparent communication of
business goals, an effective
concern resolution mechanism,
and a ﬁrm belief that employees
are the most valuable assets of
the Company, are the cornerstone
of our Company's employee
relations approach.

An 'open door policy' with constant dialogue to create win-win
situations, have helped our Company build trust and harmony.

135

MAHINDRA SKILL EXCELLENCE
The Mahindra Skill Excellence is an internal platform that aims at
holistic skill enhancement programme for the shop floor associates.
Over the years, it has matured and in the current year, 2,967
associates have participated from across all its manufacturing units.

A HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT
Significant emphasis was laid on improving health and wellness of
employees through annual medical check-ups, screening camps,
health promotional activities and awareness. Balanced nutritious
food has become a way of life at Mahindra over the past few years.

INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
Your Company maintains adequate internal control systems
commensurate with the nature of its business and size and
complexity of its operations. These are regularly tested for their
effectiveness by Statutory as well as Internal Auditors. Your
Company's Internal Financial Controls are deployed through the
Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), that addresses material risks in your Company's
operations and Financial reporting objectives.

The framework is a combination
of entity level controls (including
Enterprise Risk Management,
Legal Compliance Framework,
Internal Audit and Anti-Fraud
Mechanisms such as Ethics
Framework, Code of Conduct,
Whistle-Blower Policy, etc.),
process level controls, information
technology based controls, period
end ﬁnancial reporting and closing
controls.

Further, the Internal Control Systems have been designed to provide
reasonable assurance with regard to recording and providing reliable
financial and operational information. In the highly networked IT
environment of the Company, validation of IT Security receives
focussed attention from IT specialists and Statutory Auditors.
The Chief Internal Auditor reports administratively to the Chairman
of the Board and functionally to the Audit Committee. The Internal
Audit function develops an audit plan for the Company, which covers,
inter alia, corporate, core business operations, as well as support
functions. The Audit Committee reviews the annual internal audit
plan. Significant audit observations are presented to the Audit
Committee, together with the status of the management actions and
the progress of the implementation of the recommendations.
The Company maintains an 'Employee Health Index' at an individuallevel and this has been a useful tool in identifying employees who
require focussed counselling and monitoring. The 'Wellness App' is
available to employees for quick access to critical health related
information.
Various awareness sessions on driving employees towards a healthy
and better lifestyle, Post COVID care, emotional well-being,
Mindfulness, etc. were touched upon by experts during the exclusive
sessions for employees and their family members. Health and
Wellness always remained priority of the Company's philosophy.
The Company had a total of 23,495 permanent employees on its rolls
as on 31st March, 2023.

The Audit Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Company's internal control environment and monitors the
implementation of audit recommendations. During the year, the
Company has taken steps to review and document the adequacy and
operating effectiveness of internal controls. Nonetheless, your
Company recognises that any internal control framework, no matter
how well designed, has inherent limitations and accordingly, regular
audits and review processes ensure that such systems are reinforced
on an ongoing basis.
Your Company's Management has carried out the evaluation of
design and operative effectiveness of these controls and noted no
significant deficiencies/material weaknesses that might impact
financial statements as at the Balance Sheet date.

136

DISCUSSION ON FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE WITH
RESPECT TO OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE
OVERVIEW
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
Ind AS as per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules,
2015 as amended and notified under Section 133 of the Companies
Act, 2013 (the 'Act') and other relevant provisions of the Act.
The Group's consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
compliance with Ind AS 110 on Consolidation of Accounts and
presented in a separate section.

BORROWINGS
(Rs. in crores)

F23

F22

Inc./(Dec.)

Long-term borrowings

2,332

5,682

(3,350)

Short-term borrowings

2,312

816

1,496

Borrowings

Unclaimed matured deposits
Total

0.1

0.7

(0.6)

4,644

6,499

(1,855)

Borrowings have decreased from Rs. 6,499 crores in the previous
year to Rs. 4,644 crores in the current year mainly due to
repayments in the current year.

INVENTORIES

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
[STANDALONE]
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
As at 31st March, 2023, the Property, Plant and Equipment and
Intangible Assets stood at Rs. 19,772 crores as compared to Rs.
20,167 crores as at 31st March, 2022. During the year, the Company
incurred capital expenditure of Rs. 4,323 crores (previous year Rs.
3,349 crores). The major items of capital expenditure were on new
product development and capacity enhancement. During the year, the
Company has taken impairment of certain assets of trucks and buses
business and certain asset transfers to a subsidiary company.

Raw materials and bought out components
as a % of cost of materials consumed
Finished goods and stock-in-trade as a %
of sales of products

F23

F22

7.0%

6.2%

4.4%

5.1%

Raw materials and bought out components as a percentage of cost
of materials consumed has increased mainly on account of build up
for BS6.2 transition from 1st April, 2023 and also stocking of some of
the critical components due to supply constraints. However, finished
goods and stock-in-trade as a percentage of sales of products have
decreased mainly on account of focus on inventory management and
higher sales traction of new products.

137

TRADE RECEIVABLE
Trade Receivables are Rs. 4,042 crores as at 31st March, 2023, as compared to Rs. 3,039 crores as at 31st March, 2022. As a percentage of revenue
from sales of products and services, trade receivables are lower at 4.9% as at 31st March, 2023, as compared to 5.4% for the previous year mainly
on account of higher volume.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
INCOME
Particulars

(Rs. in crores)

F23

F22

Amount

% to Revenue
from Operations

Sales of products

82,032

Increase

Amount

% to Revenue
from Operations

%

96.6

55,537

96.1

47.7

Sale of services

1,219

1.4

1,138

2.0

7.1

Other operating revenue

1,709

2.0

1,112

1.9

53.7

Revenue from operations

84,960

100.0

57,787

100.0

47.0

2,545

3.0

2,054

3.6

23.9

Other income

REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS & OTHER INCOME
Sales volume in Auto segment witnessed an increase of 50% clocking 6,98,456 vehicles in the current year from 4,65,605 vehicles in the
previous year. Increase in volumes combined with higher realisation led to Revenue from operations growing by 53.7% as compared to the
previous year.
Other income during the year ended 31st March, 2023 at Rs. 2,545 crores is higher than Rs. 2,054 crores earned in the previous year mainly on
account of higher dividend income in the current year as compared to previous year.
(Rs. in crores)

Particulars

F23

Increase

F22

Amount

% to Revenue
from Operations

Amount

% to Revenue
from Operations

%

Material costs

64,558

76.0

42,560

73.7

51.7

Employee beneﬁts expense

3,650

4.3

3,330

5.8

9.6

273

0.3

226

0.4

20.8

Depreciation, amortisation and
impairment expense

3,154

3.7

2,498

4.3

26.3

Other expenses

6,310

7.4

4,869

8.4

29.6

Total expenses

77,945

91.7

53,483

92.6

45.7

Finance costs

138

EXPENDITURE

EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS

The total expenditure during the year as a percentage of revenue is
91.7% as compared to 92.6% in the previous year. The reduction is a
reflection of the cost management initiative undertaken by the
Company.

Exceptional items in the current and previous year comprises of
profit earned on sale of certain long-term investments partly offset
by impairment of certain investments in subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures and certain long-term assets.

MATERIAL COST

TAX EXPENSE

The material cost as a percentage of revenue has increased from
73.7% in the previous year to 76% in the current year mainly on
account of elevated levels of inputs costs and supply side challenges
witnessed during F23.

The provision for current tax and deferred tax for the year ended 31st
March, 2023, as a percentage to prof it before tax (before
exceptional items) is lower than the previous year mainly on account
of higher dividend income in FY 2022-23 as compared to FY 2021-22
and deferred tax created on capital losses.

EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
The personnel cost as a percentage of revenue from operations has
decreased from 5.8% in the previous year to 4.3% in the current
year mainly due to the higher revenue base in the current year.

OTHER EXPENSES

The key financial ratios of the Company are given as below:
M&M

Particulars
Debtors Turnover (times)

F23

F22

23.5

21.6

Inventory Turnover (times)

8.6

7.9

Interest Coverage Ratio (times)

21.6

12.9

Current Ratio (times)

1.33

1.38

Debt Equity Ratio (times)

0.16

0.17

Operating Proﬁt Margin (%)

12.3

12.2

Other expenses as a percentage of revenue from operations have
decreased from 8.4% in the previous year to 7.4% in the current
year mainly on account of stringent cost control measures adopted
by the Company coupled with higher revenue base in the current
year.

Net Proﬁt Margin (%)

7.7

8.5

Return on Net Worth (%)

15.9

13.3

DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION
AND IMPAIRMENT EXPENSE

The Return on Average Net Worth has improved from 13.3% in the
previous year to 15.9% in the current year on the base of higher
profit for the current year.

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment as a percentage of
revenue from Operations have decreased from 4.3% in the previous
year to 3.7% in the current year mainly due to higher revenue base in
the current year.

FINANCE COSTS
The interest expense as a percentage of revenue has decreased from
0.4% in the previous year to 0.3% in the current year mainly on
account of repayment of borrowings in the current year.

Explanation for variation of 25% or more in Key Financial Ratio:
Interest Coverage Ratio: The interest coverage ratio is healthier at
21.6 in FY 2022-23 as against 12.9 in the previous year primarily due
to decrease in finance cost resulting from repayment of borrowings
during the year.

139

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
POSITION OF THE M&M GROUP
As on 31st March, 2023, for the purpose of consolidation as per Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS), the Group comprised of the flagship
holding company Mahindra & Mahindra Limited:

Tech Mahindra Limited, Flagship Company in the IT Sector, reported
a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. 53,290 crores in the current
year as compared to Rs. 44,646 crores in the previous year,
registering an increase of 19.4%. Its consolidated profit after tax
after non-controlling interests is Rs. 4,831 crores as compared to Rs.
5,566 crores in the previous year, registering a decrease of 13.2%.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED

140

Subsidiaries

25

Joint Ventures

28

Associates

The Group's finance company, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited, a listed subsidiary of the Company (Mahindra
Finance), reported a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. 12,700
crores during the current year as compared to Rs. 11,318 crores in
the previous year, registering an increase of 12.2%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs.
2,072 crores as compared to Rs. 1,137 crores in the previous year,
registering an increase of 82.2%. Mahindra Finance customer base
has crossed 9.0 million customers and currently has a network of
1,386 offices.

The Consolidated Revenue from operations is Rs. 1,21,269 crores in
the current year as compared to Rs. 90,171 crores in the previous
year, registering an increase of 34.5%.
The consolidated profit before exceptional items, share of profit of
associates and joint ventures and tax for the year is Rs. 11,305
crores as against Rs. 7,092 crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of 59.4%. The consolidated profit after tax after noncontrolling interests and exceptional items for the year is Rs. 10,282
crores as against Rs. 6,577 crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of 56.3%.

Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, the listed subsidiary in the
business of real estate and infrastructure, reported a consolidated
operating revenue of Rs. 607 crores as compared to Rs. 394 crores in
the previous year, registering an increase of 54.1%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. 101
crores as compared to Rs. 154 crores in the previous year, registering
a decrease of 34.4%.

140

Swaraj Engines Limited*, a listed subsidiary in the business of
manufacture of Diesel Engines and its components, reported
operating revenue of Rs. 1,422 crores as compared to Rs. 1,138
crores in the previous year registering an increase of 25%. The profit
after tax for the year is Rs. 134 crores as compared to Rs. 109 crores
in the previous year, registering an increase of 22.9%.
* During the year ended 31st March, 2023, the controlling status was changed from
associate to subsidiary.

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited, the listed subsidiary in
the business of timeshare, registered a consolidated operating
revenue of Rs. 2,517 crores as compared to Rs. 2,013 crores in the
previous year, registering an increase of 25%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. 115
crores as compared to Rs. 68 crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of 69.1%.

SEGMENT RESULTS FROM CONTINUING
OPERATIONS (BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM)
The results achieved by major business segments of the Group are
given below:

(Rs. in crores)

Mahindra Logistics Limited, a listed subsidiary in the logistics
business, reported a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. 5,128
crores as compared to Rs. 4,141 crores in the previous year
registering an increase of 23.8%. The consolidated profit after tax
after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. 26 crores as
compared to Rs. 18 crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of 44.4%.

Segments

F-2023

F-2022

1.

Automotive

3,651

1,254

2.

Farm Equipment

4,212

3,891

3.

Financial Services

2,789

1,404

4.

Hospitality

201

99

5.

Real Estate

(101)

(81)

6.

Others

717

665

7.

Eliminations
Total

18

20

11,487

7,252

DISCLAIMER
Certain statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis
describing the Company's objectives, projections, estimates,
expectations or predictions may be "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations.
Actual results could differ from those expressed or implied.
Important factors that could make a difference to the Company's
operations include raw material availability and prices, cyclical
demand and pricing in the Company's principal markets, changes in
Government regulations, tax regimes, economic developments
within India and the countries in which the Company conducts
business and other incidental factors.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

142

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

144

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY
GOVERNANCE

ON

CORPORATE

The Late Mr. Keshub Mahindra was a firm believer of
doing business in the right way and always ensured
that performance is driven by integrity and value. The
Company follows a culture that is built on core values and
professionalism ingrained into the Company by the Founders
which have over the past more than seventy five years of
the Company’s existence become a part of its DNA.
Your Company has always practiced Corporate Governance
of the highest standards. Its philosophy on Corporate
Governance is embedded in its rich legacy of fair, ethical
and transparent governance practices, many of which were
in place even before they were mandated under the law.
During the year, your Company continued to feature in the
‘Leadership’ category in the Indian Corporate Governance
Scorecard 2022 which is developed by Institutional
Investor Advisory Services India Limited (“IiAS”) with
support from International Finance Corporation (“IFC”)
and BSE Limited (“BSE”) built around the G20/OECD
Principles of Corporate Governance, which is the globally
accepted benchmark for Corporate Governance. This
year IiAS has revised the framework for assessment of
the Indian Corporate
Governance Scorecard and also
enchanced the threshold for the Leadership category.
A Report on compliance with the Corporate Governance
provisions as prescribed under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to
time (“Listing Regulations”) is given herein below:

I.

BOARD OF DIRECTORS

The composition of the Board of your Company is in
conformity with Regulation 17 of the Listing Regulations.
The Chairman of your Company, though a Professional
Director in his individual capacity, is a Promoter &
Non‑Executive Director and the number of Non-Executive
and Independent Directors is more than one-half of the
total number of Directors.
Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
and Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director and CEO (Auto and
Farm Sector) are the Whole-time Directors of your Company.
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar was re-designated as “Executive Director

and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)” of the Company with effect
from 15th March, 2023. The remaining Non-Executive Directors
comprise of Seven Independent Directors (including Three
Woman Directors) and two Non-Independent Directors. During
the Financial Year 2022-2023, there was no change in the
number of Directors of your Company.
The composition of the Board represents an optimum
combination of knowledge, experience and skills from
diverse fields including manufacturing, finance, economics,
law, governance, etc. which are required by the Board
to discharge its responsibilities effectively. The Directors
take active part in the deliberations at the Board and
Committee Meetings by providing valuable guidance
and expert advice to the Management on various aspects
of business, policy direction, strategy, governance, compliance,
etc. and play a critical role on strategic issues and add
value in the decision making process of the Board of Directors.
The maximum tenure of Independent Directors is in
compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and
the Listing Regulations. All the Independent Directors have
provided an annual confirmation that they meet the criteria
of Independence as mentioned in Regulation 16(1)(b)
of the Listing Regulations and section 149(6) of the Act.
Based on the confirmations/ disclosures received from the
Independent Directors, the Board is of the opinion that
the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified
in the Listing Regulations and are Independent of the
Management.
Apart from reimbursement of expenses incurred in the
discharge of their duties, the remuneration that these
Directors were entitled to under the Act as Non-Executive
Directors and the remuneration that a Non-Executive
Director may receive for professional services rendered to
the Company through a firm in which he is a partner, none
of these Directors have any other pecuniary relationships
with your Company, its Subsidiaries or Associates or their
Promoters or Directors, during the three immediately
preceding financial years or during the current financial year.
None of the Directors of your Company are inter-se related
to each other.
Mr. CP Gurnani, being a Whole-time Director of Tech
Mahindra Limited, has waived his right to receive sitting
fees for attending the Meetings of the Board of Directors
or any Committee thereof on which he may be appointed
from time to time or any other remuneration payable to
the Non‑Executive Directors of the Company, effective

145

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

from 1st April, 2020 being the date of his appointment as a
Director on the Board of Directors of the Company, during
his tenure as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Professional fees for the year under review to Khaitan &
Co., Mumbai, Advocates & Solicitors and Khaitan & Co. LLP,
Advocates and Solicitors, in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, NonExecutive and Independent Director is a partner, amounted to

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Rs. 302.25 lakhs and Rs. 7.83 lakhs (including out of pocket
expenses), respectively.
The Senior Management of your Company has made
disclosures to the Board confirming that there are no material
financial and commercial transactions between them and the
Company which could has potential conflict of interest with
the Company at large.

A. Composition of the Board
The Board of your Company comprises of Twelve Directors as on 31st March, 2023 and as on date of this Report.

Board Composition
Board Demographics

Gender Diversity

(% age of Board Position)

17%

Executive Directors

25%
Women

58%

Independent Directors
(Including Women
Independent Directors
- 25%)

75%
25%

Male

Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Directors

None of the Directors is a Director (including any alternate directorships) in more than 10 public limited companies (as specified
in section 165 of the Act) and Director in more than 7 equity listed entities or acts as an Independent Director in more
than 7 equity listed entities or 3 equity listed entities in case he/she serves as a Whole-time Director/ Managing Director in
any listed entity (as specified in Regulation 17A of the Listing Regulations). Further, none of the Directors on the Board is a
Member of more than 10 Committees and Chairperson of more than 5 Committees (as specified in Regulation 26 of the Listing
Regulations), across all the Indian public limited companies in which he/ she is a Director.
The name and categories of Directors, DIN, the number of Directorships, Committee positions held by them in the companies
and the names of listed entities where he/she is a Director alongwith the category of their Directorships and other details are
given hereafter.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

146

Board of Directors as on 31st March, 2023

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Dr. Anish Shah

(DIN – 00004695)
Promoter - Chairman

(DIN – 02719429)
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer

Nationality

Indian

Age

67

Date of Appointment

Nationality

USA (OCI Card Holder,
Resident of India)

Age

53

Date of Appointment

1st April, 2020

23 November, 1989

Tenure on Board

3 years

Term Ending Date

31st March, 2025

Tenure on Board

33 years and 4 months

Shareholding

1,88,882 Shares (0.0152%)

Term Ending Date

N.A.

Shareholding

14,30,008 Shares (0.1150%)

rd

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies

Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer

Tech Mahindra Limited

Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director

 ahindra & Mahindra Financial
M
Services Limited

Chairman, Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director

Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Promoter - Chairman

 ahindra Lifespace Developers
M
Limited

Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director

Tech Mahindra Limited

Chairman, Non-Executive
Non‑Independent Director

 ahindra Holidays & Resorts
M
India Limited

Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director

Mahindra Logistics Limited

Chairman, Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director

Other Directorships*

2

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: Nil
Member: 1

Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Nil

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: Nil
Member: Nil

Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

Other Directorships*

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section 8 of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

147

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

(DIN – 00046823)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)

(DIN – 00041197)
Lead Independent Director

Nationality

Nationality

Indian

Age

70

Date of Appointment

30th May, 2012

Tenure on Board

10 years and 10 months

Indian

Age

58

Date of Appointment

1st April, 2020

Tenure on Board

3 years

Term Ending Date

7th August, 2024 (End of 2nd Term)

Term Ending Date

31st March, 2025

Shareholding

20,000 Shares (0.0016%)

Shareholding

62,874 Shares (0.0051%)

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Swaraj Engines Limited

Executive Director (Automotive and
Farm Sectors) (upto 14th March,
2023), Re-Designated as Executive
Director and CEO (Auto and Farm
Sector) w.e.f. 15th March, 2023
Chairman, Non-Executive
Non‑Independent Director

Other Directorships*

2

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: 1
Member: 1

Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Lead Independent Director

Colgate-Palmolive (India) Limited

Independent Director

Apollo Tyres Limited

Independent Director

Jubilant FoodWorks Limited

Independent Director

Larsen and Toubro Limited

Independent Director

InterGlobe Aviation Limited

Independent Director

Global Health Limited

Independent Director

Other Directorships*

—

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: 1
Member: 6

Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience

*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section 8 of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

(DIN – 05292671)
Independent Director

(DIN – 01186248)
Independent Director

Nationality

USA (Nationality of Origin‑Indian)

Age

73

Date of Appointment

30th May, 2012

Tenure on Board

10 years and 10 months

Term Ending Date

30th April, 2024 (End of 2nd Term)

Shareholding

12,500 Shares (0.0010%)

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

Other Directorships*

Nil

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: Nil
Member: 1

Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

Nationality

Indian

Age

66

Date of Appointment

11th November, 2016

Tenure on Board

6 years and 5 months

Term Ending Date

10th November, 2026
(End of 2nd Term)

Shareholding

Nil

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

Tech Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

IDBI Bank Limited

Independent Director

Other Directorships*

Nil

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: 2
Member: 2

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight
Technology and
Innovation

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

148

Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience

*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section 8 of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership.

149

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Ms. Shikha Sharma

(DIN – 00005290)
Independent Director

(DIN – 00043265)
Independent Director

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Nationality

Indian

Nationality

Indian

Age

52

Date of Appointment

8th August, 2019

Age

64

Tenure on Board

3 years and 8 months

Date of Appointment

8th August, 2019

Term Ending Date

7th August, 2024 (1st Term)

Tenure on Board

3 years and 8 months

Shareholding

Nil

Term Ending Date

7th August, 2024 (1st Term)

Shareholding

Nil

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

CEAT Limited

Independent Director

Torrent Pharmaceuticals Limited

Independent Director

Tech Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

JSW Steel Limited

Independent Director

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited

Independent Director

Tata Consumer Products Limited

Independent Director

Borosil Renewables Limited

Independent Director

Tech Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

 VR Inox Limited (name changed
P
from PVR Limited with effect from
20th April, 2023)

Independent Director

Piramal Enterprises Limited

Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director

Other Directorships*

1

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: 3
Member: 10

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight
Technology and
Innovation

Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

Other Directorships*

Nil

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: Nil
Member: 3

Sales and
Marketing Exposure

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section 8 of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

(DIN – 00591503)
Independent Director

(DIN – 07858587)
Independent Director

Nationality

Indian

Age

45

Date of Appointment

8th August, 2020

Tenure on Board

2 year and 8 months

Term Ending Date

7th August, 2025 (1st Term)

Shareholding

Nil

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

Godrej Consumer Products Limited Executive Chairperson

Nationality

Indian

Age

39

Date of Appointment

8th August, 2020

Tenure on Board

2 year and 8 months

Term Ending Date

7th August, 2025 (1st Term)

Shareholding

Nil

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies

Godrej Agrovet Limited

Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director

Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Independent Director

VIP Industries Limited

Independent Director

E.I.D. Parry (India) Limited

Whole Time Director & CEO

Bharti Airtel Limited

Independent Director

Other Directorships*

1

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: Nil
Member: Nil

Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Other Directorships*

1

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: Nil
Member: 1

Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

150

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section 8 of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership.

151

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

Mr. CP Gurnani

(DIN – 02449088)
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of LIC)

(DIN – 00018234)
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director

Nationality

Indian

Nationality

Indian

Age

64

Age

64

Date of Appointment

14th November, 2018

Date of Appointment

1st April, 2020

Tenure on Board

4 years and 5 months

Term Ending Date

N.A.

Tenure on Board

3 years

Shareholding

Nil

Term Ending Date

N.A.

Shareholding

2,290 Shares (0.0002%)

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director (Nominee of LIC)

Tata Steel Limited

Independent Director

Reliance Power Limited

Independent Director

NURECA Limited

Independent Director

Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Non-Executive Non- Independent
Director

Tech Mahindra Limited

Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer

Other Directorships*

1

Other Directorships*

Nil

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: 3
Member: 4

Committee details as per
Regulation 26 of Listing
Regulations**

Chairperson: Nil
Member: 1

Sales and Marketing
Exposure

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Sales and
Marketing Exposure

Area
of Expertise

Business
Experience

Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

Governance and
Regulatory
oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Business
Experience

Area
of Expertise

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section 8 of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

B. Board Procedure
A detailed Agenda, setting out the business to be transacted
at the Meeting(s), supported by detailed Notes and
Presentation(s) if any, is sent to each Director at least seven
days before the date of the Board Meeting(s) and of the
Committee Meeting(s) except where Meeting(s) have been
convened at a shorter notice to transact urgent business.
To provide a web-based solution, a soft copy of the said
Agenda(s) and Presentation(s) is also uploaded on the
Board Portal which acts as a document repository. Video
Conferencing facilities are provided to enable Director(s) who
are unable to attend the Meeting(s) in person, to participate
in the Meeting.
To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities
effectively and take informed decisions, the Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer apprises the Board at
every Meeting of the overall performance of your Company,
followed by Presentation(s) by the Executive Director, the
Sector President(s) and Chief Financial Officer. A detailed
functional Report is also presented at the Board Meeting(s).
The Board also, inter alia, periodically reviews strategy and
business plans, annual operating and capital expenditure
budget(s), investment and exposure limit(s), compliance
report(s) of all laws applicable to your Company, as well
as steps taken by your Company to rectify instances of
non‑compliances, performance of operating divisions, review
of major legal issues, Minutes of the Committees of the
Board and of Board Meetings of your Company’s subsidiaries,
significant transactions and arrangements entered into by
the unlisted subsidiary companies, approval of quarterly
/ half-yearly / annual results, significant labour problems
and their proposed solutions, safety and risk management,
transactions pertaining to purchase/disposal of property(ies),
sale of investments, major accounting provisions and writeoffs, corporate restructuring, joint ventures or collaboration
agreement(s), material default in financial obligations, if any,
fatal or serious accidents, any material effluent or pollution
problems, transactions that involve substantial payment
towards goodwill, brand equity or intellectual property, any
issue that involves possible public or product liability claims
of substantial nature, including judgement or order which
may have passed strictures on the conduct of your Company,
quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the
steps taken by Management to limit the risks of adverse
exchange rate movement, statutory updates, etc.
The Board sets annual performance objectives, oversees the
actions and results of the management, evaluates its own
performance, performance of its Committees and individual

152

Directors on an annual basis and monitors the effectiveness
of the Company’s governance practices for enhancing the
stakeholders’ value.
The Board of Directors of your Company closely monitors
the performance of the Company and Management, approves
the plans, reviews the strategy and strives to achieve
organisational growth. Your Board ensures statutory and
ethical conduct and places high importance on the internal
financial reporting.
Your Company has well-established framework for the
Meetings of the Board and its Committees which seeks to
systematise the decision making process at the Meetings
in an informed and efficient manner. Regular inputs and
feedback of Board Members are taken and considered while
preparing the Agenda and related documents for the Board
and Committee Meetings. The Board also has access to the
Members of the Management and to the Company related
information.
Apart from Board Members and the Company Secretary, the
Board and Committee Meeting(s) are also attended by the
Chief Financial Officer and wherever required by the Heads
of various Corporate Functions.
The Company Secretary plays a key role in ensuring that
the Board (including Committees thereof) procedures are
followed and regularly reviewed. The Company Secretary is
primarily responsible to assist and advise the Board in the
conduct of affairs of the Company, to ensure compliance
with applicable statutory requirements, to provide guidance
to Directors, to facilitate convening of Meetings and acts
as interface between the Management and Regulatory
Authorities for Governance related matters of the Company.

C. 
Number
of
Board
Meetings
and
Attendance of the Directors at Meetings
of the Board
During the year 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023, Nine
Board Meetings were held on 28th May, 2022, 7th July,
2022, 5th August, 2022, 19th August, 2022, 9th September,
2022, 10th & 11th November, 2022, 21st November, 2022,
10th February, 2023 and 15th March, 2023. The Board met at
least once in every Calendar Quarter and the gap between
two consecutive Meetings did not exceed one hundred and
twenty days. These Meetings were well attended by the
Directors.

153

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

The attendance of the Directors at these Meetings held during the year, was as under:

Board Attendance
Board Meeting Dates and Mode
Name of Directors

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

28th
May,
2022

7th
July,
2022

5th
August,
2022

19th
August,
2022

9th
September,
2022

10th & 11th
November,
2022

21st
November,
2022

10th
February,
2023

15th
March,
2023

Hybrid

VC

Hybrid

VC

VC

Hybrid

VC

Hybrid

Hybrid














9

8

89%

9

9

100%
100%

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Anish Shah






Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar










Held
during the
Year

Attended

% of
attendance
of a Director

9

9

100%

9

9

100%

9

8

89%

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai



Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta











 +





9

9

9

8

89%







9

9

100%





9

9

100%



9

9

100%

9

8

89%

9

9

100%

Mr. T. N. Manoharan



Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma






Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. CP Gurnani



Ms. Nisaba Godrej




Mr. Muthiah Murugappan



% of attendance at a Meeting

100%

Attended through Video Conference

100%



Leave of Absence

+ 

100%

100%



92%

83%






92%

100%

Attended in-person

D. Attendance of the Directors at the last
Annual General Meeting and Meeting
of the Equity Shareholders as per the
Order of the Hon’ble National Company
Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench
The 76th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of your Company
was held on 5th August, 2022 through Video Conferencing
(“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) facility.

Name of Directors

100%



Further, a Meeting of the Equity Shareholders of your
Company was convened on 19th August, 2022 through VC/
OVAM facility as per the directions of the Hon’ble National
Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench vide its Order dated
10th June, 2022 (“CCM”).
The attendance of the Directors at the said Meetings held
during the year, was as under:

AGM,

CCM

Shareholders Meeting

5th August, 2022

19th August, 2022

during the year

Attended

% of attendance of a
Director

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

2

2

100%

Dr. Anish Shah

2

2

100%

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

2

2

100%

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

2

2

100%

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

2

2

100%

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

2

2

100%

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

2

2

100%

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

2

2

100%

Ms. Shikha Sharma

2

2

100%

Mr. CP Gurnani

2

2

100%

2

1

50%

2

2

100%



Ms. Nisaba Godrej
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
% of attendance at a Meeting
Attended through Video Conference

100%

 Leave of Absence

92%

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Pursuant to removal of the restriction of conducting
Board Meeting(s) through Video Conferencing/Other AudioVisual Means for selected Agenda Items by the Ministry
of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’), a majority of the Board and
Committee Meeting(s) were held through hybrid mode
where the Directors were given an option to join the Meeting
through Video Conferencing (VC) facility. The VC facility was
provided for all Board and Committee Meetings held during
the year under review.

E. Meetings of Independent Directors
The Independent Directors of your Company often meet
before the Board Meeting(s) without the presence of the
Chairman, the Managing Director or the Executive Director or
other Non‑Independent Director(s) or any other Management
Personnel.
These Meetings are conducted in an informal and flexible
manner to enable the Independent Directors to, inter alia,
discuss matters pertaining to review of performance of
Non-Independent Directors and the Board of Directors as
a whole, review the performance of the Chairman of the
Company (taking into account the views of other Executive
and Non-Executive Directors), assess the quality, quantity
and timeliness of flow of information between the Company
Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board of
Directors to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
Five Meetings of Independent Directors were held during the
year under review and these Meetings were well attended by
the Independent Directors.
The Independent Directors communicate as appropriate,
suggestions, views or concerns to the Chairman or Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer upon conclusion of their
Meeting(s).

F. Director(s) seeking Re‑appointment
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman and Mr. Vijay Kumar
Sharma, Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee
of LIC) are liable to retire by rotation and being eligible for
re-appointment at the ensuing AGM of your Company, have
offered themselves for re-appointment.
 Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Chairman
Mr. Mahindra graduated Magna Cum Laude from Harvard
College (1977) and secured an MBA from the Harvard
Business School (1981). He made a generous endowment in
2010 to the Harvard Humanities Center which is now known
as the Mahindra Humanities Centre at Harvard. In 2008
he was bestowed the Harvard Business School’s Alumni

154

Achievement Award and in 2014 he became the first Indian
recipient of the Harvard Alumni Association’s Harvard Medal.
Mr. Mahindra was first appointed as a Director on the Board
of the Company on 23rd November, 1989. He then took over
as Deputy Managing Director of the Company in 1991 at a
time when the turnover was US$ 177 million. He initiated
a comprehensive change programme to make the Company
an efficient and aggressive competitor in the new liberalised
economic environment in India.
In April 1997, he was appointed as Managing Director of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and in January, 2001 given
the additional responsibility of Vice Chairman. In August,
2012, he was appointed as Chairman and designated as
Chairman & Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited. In November, 2016, Mr. Mahindra was re-designated
as Executive Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited.
Mr. Anand Mahindra’s tenure has seen the Group expand
domestically and internationally into a range of major industrial
sectors from automobiles and agriculture to IT and aerospace.
He has served on several influential bodies, national and
international. These include the Reserve Bank of India Board,
UN Global Compact Board, Global Board of Advisors of the
Council on Foreign Relations, World Bank Group’s Advisory
Board for Doing Business and the International Advisory
Council of Singapore’s Economic Development Board. He has
been the President of The Confederation of Indian Industry
and served on the boards of the National Stock Exchange of
India and the National Council of Applied Economic Research.
He is currently on the board of Invest India, the National
Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency.
Mr. Mahindra has been conferred with the Padma Bhushan
Award (2020), India’s third-highest civilian honour, for
his contribution to the nation in the field of ‘Trade and
Industry’. He has been named in Barron’s List of Top 30
CEOs worldwide (2016) and Fortune Magazine’s list of the
World’s 50 Greatest Leaders (2014). He was a recipient of
the Best Transformational Leader Award by the Asian Centre
for Corporate Governance & Sustainability (2012). He was
appointed ‘Knight in the National Order of the Legion of
Honour’ by the President of the French Republic (2016) and
conferred the ‘Grand Officer of the Order of the Star of Italy’
by the President of Italy (2013).
Mr. Mahindra is an incisive business commentator and
humanitarian with over 10 million followers on Twitter.
Among his many social change initiatives is the Nanhi Kali
programme, which, for the last two decades, has provided
over 330,000 underprivileged girls access to high-quality
education. Mr. Mahindra is the Chairman of the Board of

155

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Naandi Foundation, India’s leading NGO focused on educating
girls, skilling youth and providing sustainable livelihoods to
small farmers through biodynamic agriculture. Mr. Mahindra
also serves on the Founders Board of The Rise Fund, a
$2 billion impact fund.
He is a strong votary of arts and culture. Mahindra Blues,
Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Awards and Mahindra
Sanatkada celebrate and nurture music, theatre culture, art
and history in India. Mr. Mahindra is the member of the Global
Advisory Council of the Lincoln Center, New York and has
previously served on the Board of Trustees of the Natural
History Museum of London.
In 2014, Mr. Mahindra founded the Pro Kabaddi League to
popularize the ancient and popular Indian game of kabaddi.
The league, televised through the STAR television network, is
aimed at creating a new popular fan following for Kabbadi as
an antithesis to cricket.
As Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Anand Mahindra serves as
mentor and sounding board for the Managing Director and
Senior Management especially in the areas of strategic
planning, risk mitigation and external interface. He continues
to play an important role in epitomising and building Brand
Mahindra. He is available to provide feedback and counsel to
the Managing Director and Senior Management on key issues
facing the Company.
Mr. Mahindra has completed 68 years of age.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman of Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Classic Legends
Private Limited and Mahindra Holdings Limited and Director
of Prudential Management & Services Private Limited, The
Mahindra United World College of India, Tech Mahindra
Foundation, Araku Originals Private Limited, Naandi
Community Water Services Private Limited, Breach Candy
Hospital Trust, Invest India and The Indian and Eastern
Engineer Company Private Limited.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is also a Part-time Non-official Director
of Central Board of Reserve Bank of India.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is a Chairman/Member of the following
Board Committees:
Name of the
Company

Name of the Committee(s)

Position
Held

Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited

Strategic Investment Committee
Sale of Assets Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee
Stakeholders Relationship Committee

Chairman
Chairman
Member
Member

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Mr. Mahindra holds 14,30,008 Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company.
Mr. Mahindra has not resigned as a Director from any listed
Company in the past three years and is not inter-se related
to any other Director of the Company.
 Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (Nominee of
LIC)
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is a post-graduate (M.Sc.) from
Patna University.
Mr. Sharma joined Life Insurance Corporation of India
(“LIC”) as Direct Recruit Officer in 1981 and grew up with
the Corporation since then. He held various challenging
assignments pan India and in all operational streams including
in-charge positions at different levels. Working across length
and breadth of the country has added immensely to his
experience and honed his understanding of demographics
of the country, socioeconomic needs of different regions
and multi-cultural challenges in implementation of LIC’s
objectives.
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma superannuated as Chairman of LIC
on 31st December, 2018. Prior to his taking over as Chairman
on 16th December 2016, he served as Chairman (In charge)
from 16th September, 2016 and Managing Director of
LIC from 1st November, 2013. From December, 2010 to
November, 2013, he served as Managing Director & Chief
Executive Officer, LIC Housing Finance Limited (LIC HFL), a
premier housing finance company in the country.
As MD & CEO of LIC HFL, he stabilized the operations under
most challenging circumstances of negative media glare,
intense scrutiny by Regulator & others and turned it around
to be the best Housing Finance Company in 2011.
He has been an inspirational leader who utilizes negotiation
skills gained over thirty seven years of extensive experience
in insurance and financial sectors and strongly connects to
the grass root levels, believes in bottom-up approach and has
the ability to see the Big Picture and translate it to reality.
He is known as Growth Leader, leading the Organisation to
surge ahead and turnaround on its growth path in all the
segments of performance.
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma has completed 64 years of age.
Mr. Sharma is Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Independent Director of Tata
Steel Limited, Reliance Power Limited, NURECA Limited,
Vidarbha Industries Power Limited and Director of Ambuja
Cement Foundation.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma is a Chairman/ Member of the
following Board Committees:
Sr.
No.

Name of the
Company

Name of the Committee(s)

Position
Held

1.

Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited

Strategic Investment
Committee

Member

Tata Steel Limited

Stakeholders Relationship
Committee

Chairman

Nomination & Remuneration
Committee

Member

2.

4.

Reliance Power
Limited

can be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
All the Board Members and Senior Management Personnel
have affirmed compliance with these Codes. A declaration
signed by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
to this effect is enclosed at the end of this Report.
The Code of Conduct for the Board Members of the Company
also includes Code for Independent Directors which is a guide
to professional conduct for Independent Directors, pursuant
to section 149(8) and Schedule IV of the Act.

H. CEO/CFO Certiﬁcation

Safety Health and Environment Member
Committee
3.

156

Nomination & Remuneration
Committee

Chairman

Stakeholders Relationship
Committee

Chairman

Audit Committee

Member

CSR Committee

Member

Risk Management Committee

Member

Vidarbha Industries Audit Committee
Power Limited

Chairman

CSR Committee

Chairman

Nomination & Remuneration
Committee

Member

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma does not hold any Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company.
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma has resigned as a Director of ACC
Limited on 20th July, 2020 and is not inter-se related to any
other Director of the Company.

G. Codes of Conduct
The Board of your Company has laid down two separate
Codes of Conduct (“Codes”), one for all the Board Members
and the other for Employees of the Company. These Codes
have been posted on the website of your Company and

The Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Group
Chief Financial Officer of the Company have jointly provided
an annual certification on financial reporting and internal
controls to the Board in terms of Regulation 17(8) of the
Listing Regulations and quarterly certification on financial
results while placing the financial results before the Board in
terms of Regulation 33(2) of the Listing Regulations.

I.

I nduction and Familiarisation Programme
for Independent Directors

A newly appointed Independent Director is provided with
an appointment letter along with their roles, duties &
responsibilities and copies of the Code for Independent
Directors and Company’s Code of Conduct for Directors, etc.
as may be applicable to them.
Each newly appointed Independent Director is taken
through an induction and familiarisation program including
the presentation and interactive session with the Managing
Director and CEO, Executive Director, other Functional
Heads on the Company’s manufacturing, marketing and
other important aspects. The Company Secretary briefs the
Director about their legal & regulatory responsibilities as
a Director. The program also includes visit to the plant to
familiarise them with all facets of manufacturing.
Pursuant to Regulation 25(7) of the Listing Regulations,
the Company imparted various familiarisation programmes
for its Directors including periodic review of Investments
of the Company at Strategic Investment Committee
Meetings, Regulatory updates, Industry Outlook, Business
Strategy at the Board Meetings and changes with respect
to the Companies Act, Taxation and other matters, Listing

157

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Regulations, Framework for Related Party Transactions, etc.
at the Audit Committee Meetings, Economic Environment &
Global Scenario, Frontier Risks, Business Entity Risks, etc. at
the Risk Management Committee Meetings, Products Launch
and Showcase of New Vehicles, etc. The details as required
under Regulations 46 and 62(1A) of the Listing Regulations
are available on the website of your Company at the web link:
https://mahindra.com/sites/default/files/2023-02/disclosuresunder-regulation-46-and-62-of-sebi-lodr.pdf.

Sr.
No.

Skills

Particulars

1.

Business Experience

Established leadership skills in strategic
planning, succession planning, driving
change and long-term growth and guiding
the Company towards its vision, mission
and values.

J. B
 oard Conﬁrmation regarding
Independence of the Independent
Directors

2.

Global business/
broad international
exposure / emerging
markets experience

Global mindset and staying updated on
global market opportunities, experience
in driving business success in markets
around the world with an understanding
of diverse business environments,
economic conditions, sensitivity to
cultural diversity and adaptability.

3.

Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight

The Company uses various financial
metrics to measure its performance.
Accurate Financial Reporting and Robust
Auditing are critical to its success.

All the Independent Directors of the Company have given
declaration/disclosures under section 149(7) of the Act and
Regulation 25(8) of the Listing Regulations and have confirmed
that they fulfil the independence criteria as specified under
section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation 16 of the Listing
Regulations and have also confirmed that they are not
aware of any circumstance or situation, which exist or may
be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their
ability to discharge their duties with an objective independent
judgement and without any external inﬂuence.
Further, the Board after taking these declaration/ disclosures
on record and acknowledging the veracity of the same,
concluded that the Independent Directors are persons of
integrity and possess the relevant expertise and experience
to qualify as Independent Directors of the Company and are
Independent of the Management.

K. Matrix setting out the core skills/
expertise/competence of the Board
of Directors
A chart/ matrix setting out the core skills/ expertise/
competencies identified by the Board of Directors in the
context of the Company’s businesses and sectors as required
for it to function effectively and those actually available with
the Board alongwith the names of Directors who have such
skills/expertise/competence, are given below:

Critically analysing complex and detailed
information and developing innovative
solutions and striking a balance between
agility and consistency.

The Company expects its Directors :1.	To have an understanding of Finance
and Financial Reporting Processes;
2.	To understand and oversee various
risks facing the Company and
ensure that appropriate policies
and procedures are in place to
effectively manage risk.
4.

Technology and
Innovation

An appreciation of emerging trends
in product design and development,
research, disruptions in technology and
in business models.

5.

Governance and
Regulatory oversight

Devise systems for compliance with
a variety of regulatory requirements,
reviewing compliance and governance
practices for a long term sustainable
growth of the Company and protecting
stakeholders’ interest.

6.

Sales and Marketing
Exposure

Ability in developing strategies to
increase
market
share
through
innovation, build better brand experience
for customers, improve prospective
customer engagement levels and help
establish active customers become loyal
brand followers.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

158

Skills
Name of Directors

Business
Experience

Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience

Financial
Experience and
Risk Oversight

Technology and
Innovation

Governance
and Regulatory
oversight

Sales and
Marketing
Exposure

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

√

√

√

√

√

√

Dr. Anish Shah

√

√

√

√

√

√

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

√

√

√

√

√

√

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

√

√

√

√

√

√

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

√

√

√

—

√

√

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

√

√

√

√

√

—

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

√

—

√

—

√

√

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

√

√

√

√

√

—

Ms. Shikha Sharma

√

√

√

√

√

√

Mr. CP Gurnani

√

√

√

√

√

√

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

√

√

√

√

√

√

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

√

√

√

√

√

√

L. Resignation of Independent Director(s)
During the year under review, none of the Independent
Directors of the Company had resigned before the expiry of
their respective tenure(s).

M. Lead Independent Director
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Independent Director and Chairman
of Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
has been appointed as the Lead Independent Director with
effect from 1st April, 2021.
As a Lead Independent Director, Mr. Mehta has been entrusted,
inter alia, with the following roles and responsibilities:

(iii)	Convene exclusive Meeting(s) of Independent
Directors, set agenda, preside over the meetings of
the Independent Directors and provide feedback to the
Chairperson / Board of Directors after such Meetings;
(iv)	Preside over Meetings of the Board at which the
Chairperson is not present;
(v)	Identify critical issues for the Board to deal with and
assist the Board in achieving consensus on important
issues;
(vi)	Communicate to the Chairman and Management, as
appropriate, any decisions reached, suggestions, views
or concerns expressed by Independent Directors at
their Meetings or outside of the Board Meetings;

(i)	Provide leadership to the Independent Directors
and liaise between the Chairperson of the Board
and Independent Directors without inhibiting direct
communication between them;

(vii)	Play the role of a facilitator outside the Boardroom,
especially, on contentious issues;

(ii)	Ensure Board effectiveness to maintain high-quality
governance of the Company and the effective
functioning of the Board;

(ix)	Take the lead role, along with Chairman in assessing
the performance evaluation of the Board and that of
Individual Director.

(viii)	Provide candid feedback to MD & CEO and CFO post
Meeting of Independent Directors; and

159

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

II. REMUNERATION TO DIRECTORS
A. Remuneration Policy
Your Company has a well-defined Policy for Remuneration of
the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other Employees.
This Policy is available on the website of the Company and can
be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link: https://
www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
The Governance Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(“GNRC”) while deciding the basis for determining the
compensation, both fixed and variable to the Non-Executive
Directors, takes into consideration various factors such as
Director’s participation in Board and Committee Meetings
during the year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as
Membership or Chairmanship of Committees, time spent in
carrying out other duties, role and functions as envisaged in
Schedule IV of the Act and Listing Regulations and such other
factors as the GNRC deems fit.

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

B. Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
Pursuant to the approval granted by the Members of the
Company at the 69th AGM held on 7th August, 2015, the eligible
Non-Executive Directors are paid commission upto a maximum
of 1% of the net profits of the Company for each financial
year, as computed in the manner laid down in section 198 of
the Act or any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s)
thereof or Rs. 38 crores in the aggregate, whichever is lower;
provided that none of such Directors shall, in any Financial
Year individually receive a portion of such remuneration more
than one quarter percent of the net profits of the Company.

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Further, based on approval of the Shareholders of the
Company at the 75th AGM held on 6th August, 2021,
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman (Non-Executive Director)
of the Company will be paid a fixed Commission of Rs. 2.50
crores per annum, with effect from 12th November, 2021.
During the year under review, the following Non-Executive
Directors were paid a commission of Rs. 359.42 lakhs
(provided for in the accounts for the year ended 31st March,
2022), distributed amongst the Directors as follows:

The elements of remuneration package of Executive Directors
include salary, benefits, stock options, provident fund, etc.
and is decided based on the individual performance as well
as performance of the Company, inﬂation, prevailing industry
trends and benchmarks. The Non-Executive Directors are paid
remuneration in the form of sitting fees for attending the
meetings of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof,
as approved by the Board of Directors and Commission.
Based on the Shareholders’ approval, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra,
as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company is entitled to
Remuneration (by way of monthly payment) and Commission
apart from sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the
Board of Directors or any Committee thereof as approved
by the Board of Directors for Non-Executive Directors of the
Company and also Reimbursements and Benefits as per the
Company’s Policy with effect from 12th November, 2021.

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

*

Name of Directors

Commission for the year
ended 31st March, 2022,
paid during the year
under review
(Rs. In Lakhs)

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra*

95.89

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

36.00

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

36.00

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

36.00

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
(Nominee of LIC)

30.00#

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

36.00##

Ms. Shikha Sharma

30.00

Mr. CP Gurnani^

Nil

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

30.00

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

29.53

Non-Executive Chairman from 12th November, 2021.

# Commission is paid to LIC.
##	Commission was paid to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a
Partner.
^	Mr. CP Gurnani being a Whole-time Director of Tech Mahindra Limited, has
waived his right to receive Sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the Board
of Directors or any Committee or any other remuneration payable to the
Non‑Executive Directors of the Company.

A commission of Rs. 582 lakhs has been provided as payable
to the Non-Executive Directors in the accounts for the year
under review. Non-Executive Directors are also paid sitting
fees of Rs. 1,00,000 each for every Meeting of the Board
and Rs. 60,000 each for every Committee Meeting other
than Stakeholders Relationship Committee (increased from
Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 60,000 with effect from 11th February,
2023). The sitting fees paid for every Meeting of Stakeholders
Relationship Committee is Rs. 30,000 each for Non‑Executive
Director. Additionally, Non-Executive Directors are also
reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of
their official duties.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

160

The sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the commission payable to them for the year ended 31st March, 2023 along
with their respective shareholdings in your Company are as under:

Name of Directors

Sitting Fees paid for the Board
and Committee Meetings held
during the year ended
31st March, 2023
(Rs. in Lakhs)

Commission for the year ended
31st March, 2023, provided as
payable in the accounts of the
Company for the year under review
(Rs. in Lakhs)

No. of Ordinary (Equity)
Shares held as on
31st March, 2023

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

14.40

250.00

14,30,008

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

21.50

45.00

20,000

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

10.80

45.00

12,500

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

17.30

45.00

Nil

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (Nominee of LIC)

10.10

#

38.00

Nil

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

18.50##

45.00##

Nil

Ms. Shikha Sharma

19.90

38.00

Nil

Mr. CP Gurnani^

Nil

Nil

2,290

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

10.60

38.00

Nil

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

11.50

38.00

Nil

#
Commission is payable to LIC.
## Sitting fees/Commission were paid/are payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a Partner.
^	Mr. CP Gurnani being a Whole-time Director of Tech Mahindra Limited, has waived his right to receive Sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the Board of
Directors or any Committee or any other remuneration payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.

The Non-Executive Directors were not granted stock options during the year under review.

C. 
Remuneration paid/payable
31st March, 2023

to

the

Whole‑time

Directors

for

the

year

ended

Remuneration to the Whole-time Directors is fixed by GNRC basis the approval of the Board of Directors and Shareholders at a
General Meeting. Following is the remuneration paid/payable to the Whole-time Directors during the year ended 31st March, 2023:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Salary

Company’s
Contribution
to Funds1

Perquisites
and
Allowances

Dr. Anish Shah (Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer)

1,193.61#

51.54

398.82@

1,643.97 Deputy Managing Director and Group Chief Financial
Officer from 1st April, 2020 to 1st April, 2021 and
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer from
2nd April, 2021 to 31st March, 2025

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director
and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)

937.40##

34.71

302.24@@

1,274.35 1st April, 2020 to 31st March, 2025
Designated as Executive Director (Automotive and
Farm Sectors) upto 14th March, 2023 and
re-designated as Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) from 15th March, 2023.

Directors

1
#
##
@
@@

Total

Contract Period

Aggregate of the Company’s contributions to Superannuation Fund and Provident Fund.
Includes Performance pay of Rs. 396 lakhs.
Includes Performance pay of Rs. 345 lakhs.
Includes Rs. 397.43 lakhs being perquisite value of ESOPs of the Company exercised during the year.
Includes Rs. 301.06 lakhs being perquisite value of ESOPs of the Company exercised during the year.

Notes:
a.
Notice period applicable to each of the Whole-time Directors is six months.
b.
Employee Stock Options and Performance Pay are the only components of remuneration that are performance-linked. All other components are fixed.
c.
There is no separate provision for payment of Severance Fees.

161

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

D. Remuneration paid/payable to Mr. Anand
G. Mahindra, Non‑Executive Chairman
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
The remuneration of Mr. Anand G. Mahindra was recommended
by GNRC and subsequently approved by the Board of Directors
and thereafter by the Shareholders of the Company at the
75th AGM held on 6th August, 2021. Further, the Shareholders
of the Company at the 76th AGM held on 5th August, 2022
pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 17(6)(ca) of the
Listing Regulations, accorded their approval for payment of
remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra for the Financial Year
2022-23, being an amount exceeding fifty percent of the
total annual remuneration payable to all the Non-Executive

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Directors of the Company for the Financial Year 2022-23.
Following is the remuneration paid/payable to Mr. Anand G.
Mahindra as Non-Executive Chairman during the year ended
31st March, 2023:
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Director(s)

Remuneration

Commission

Total*

250#

250

500

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

* In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post
Retirement Benefit Scheme of the Company.
# Excludes Sitting Fees.

E. The Stock Option granted to Directors, the period over which accrued and over which
exercisable are as under:
2000 Scheme
Options
granted in
December,
2001*

Name of Directors (alongwith their Designation)
to whom Stock Options have been granted

Options
Options
granted in granted in
June, September,
2005**
2006

Options
granted in
July,
2007

Options
granted in
August,
2008

Options
granted in
September,
2012
(6)

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Independent Director

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Independent Director

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

*10,000

Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

*13,548

*15,000***

*12,824***

*13,492***

25,178***

N.A.

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director & CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector)

10,000*****

@

@

2010 Scheme
Name of Directors (alongwith their
Designation) to whom Stock Options have
been granted

Options
Options
granted in granted in
January, November,
2011
2013

Dr. Anish Shah,
Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar,
Executive Director & CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector)

Options Options
granted granted
in June, in March,
2021
2022%

Options
Options
granted granted in
in March, November,
2022!
2022

(7)

(8)

(9)

(10)

(11)

(12)

(13)

(14)

(15)

(16)

(17)

N.A.

N.A. *1,25,270****

Nil

Nil

*36,504

57,755

2,70,386

14,367

58,207

49,596

*40,733**** *13,578****

*18,882

*18,882

49,870

2,13,471

17,139

47,169

41,790

37,085 *44,282****

@

Options
Options
Options
Options
Options
granted in granted in granted in granted in granted in
August, November, November, November, November,
2015
2015
2018
2019
2020

@
Unexercised Options lapsed.
Notes:
a.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra being a Promoter of the Company is not entitled to Stock Options.
b.	
Mr. T. N. Manoharan, Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma, Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, Ms. Shikha Sharma, Ms. Nisaba Godrej, Mr. Muthiah Murugappan and Mr. CP Gurnani have not been
granted any Stock Options.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Sr.
No.

Options granted
at a discount in

Vesting period

Exercise period

Exercise price

(1)

December, 2001

Already vested in December, 2002

Within five years from the date of vesting

**Rs. 59 per share***

(2)

June, 2005

Already vested in June, 2006

Within five years from the date of vesting

**Rs. 454 per share***

(3)

September, 2006

Four equal instalments in September 2007, 2008, 2009
and 2010 respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 616 per share***

(4)

July, 2007

Four equal instalments in July 2008, 2009, 2010 and
2011 respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 762 per share***

(5)

August, 2008

Four equal instalments in August 2009, 2010, 2011 and
2012 respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 500 per share***

(6)

September, 2012

Four equal instalments in September 2013, 2014, 2015
and 2016 respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 662 per share*****

(7)

January, 2011

Five equal instalments in January 2012, 2013, 2014,
2015 and 2016 respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 5 per share*****

(8)

November, 2013

Five equal instalments in November 2014, 2015, 2016,
2017 and 2018 respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 5 per share*****

(9)

August, 2015

Four instalments in February 2017, 2018, 2019 and
2020 respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 5 per share*****

(10)

November, 2015

Four instalments in May 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020
respectively

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 5 per share*****

(11)

November, 2018

Three instalments in November 2019, 2020 and 2021

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 5 per share

(12)

November, 2019

Three instalments in November 2020, 2021 and 2022

On the date of vesting or within five years from
the date of vesting

Rs. 5 per share

(13)

November, 2020

Three instalments in November 2021, 2022 and 2023

On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is 4 years from the date of vesting.

Rs. 5 per share

(14)

June, 2021

Five instalments in June 2024, 2025, 2026, 2027 &
2028

On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is 6 years from the date of vesting.

Rs. 5 per share

(15)

March, 2022%

Five instalments in March 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028 &
2029

On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is 6 years from the date of vesting.

Rs. 5 per share

(16)

March, 2022!

Three instalments in March 2023, 2024 & 2025

On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is 4 years from the date of vesting.

Rs. 5 per share

(17)

November, 2022

Three instalments in November 2023, 2024 & 2025

On the date of vesting or within the exercise
period specified for each vesting. The maximum
exercise period is 4 years from the date of vesting.

Rs. 5 per share

*

162

All these Options have been exercised.

** 	The Options granted stand augmented by an equal number of Options and the Exercise Price stands reduced to half on account of the 1:1 Bonus Issue made in September, 2005.
*** 	The number of Stock Options granted and outstanding as on 30th March, 2010, stand augmented by an equal number of Options and Exercise Price stands reduced to half on account
of Sub-division of each Ordinary (Equity) Share of the Company having a Face Value of Rs. 10 each fully paid-up into 2 (Two) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Face Value of Rs. 5 each
fully paid-up.
****

The Options granted and outstanding stand augmented by an equal number of Bonus Options on account of the 1:1 Bonus Issue made in December, 2017.

***** 	The Options granted and outstanding stand augmented by an equal number of Options and the Exercise Price stands reduced to half on account of the 1:1 Bonus Issue made in
December, 2017.

163

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

III. RISK MANAGEMENT

IV. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD

Your Company has a well-defined risk management
framework in place. The risk management framework works
at various levels across the Company. These levels form the
strategic defence cover of the Company’s risk management.
The Company has a robust organisational structure for
managing and reporting on risks.

The Board Committees play a crucial role in the governance
structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal
with specific areas / activities as mandated by applicable
regulations; which concern the Company and need a closer
review. Majority of the Members constituting the Committees
are Independent Directors and each Committee is guided by
its Charter or Terms of Reference, which provide for the
scope, powers & duties and responsibilities.

Your Company has constituted a Risk Management
Committee consisting of Board Members which is authorised
to monitor and review Risk Management plan and risk
certificate. The Committee is also empowered, inter alia, to
review and recommend to the Board the modifications to the
Risk Management Policy.
Further, the Board has constituted a Corporate Risk Council
comprising of the Senior Executives including Chief Risk
Officer of the Company. The terms of reference of the Council
comprise review of Risks and Risk Management Policy at
periodic intervals.
The Risk Management process has been established across
the Company and is designed to identify, assess and frame
a response to threats that affect the achievement of its
objectives. Further, it is embedded across all the major
functions and revolves around the goals and objectives of
the Company.

The Chairperson of the respective Committee informs the
Board about the summary of the discussions held in the
respective Committee Meetings. The minutes of the Meeting
of all Committees are placed before the Board for review.
During the year, all recommendations of the Committees
of the Board which were mandatorily required have been
accepted by the Board.
There are Six Board constituted Committees as on
31st March, 2023, which comprise of Five Statutory
Committees and One Non-statutory Committee (Voluntary
Committee), details of which are as follows:

Board Committees as on 31st March, 2023:

The Board

Governance, Nomination
and Remuneration
Committee

Stakeholders Relationship
Committee

Mr. T.N. Manoharan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Ms. Nisaba Godrej

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee

Risk Management
Committee

Strategic Investment
Committee*

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Anish Shah
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Dr. Anish Shah
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

Audit Committee

Chairperson
Members
* Voluntary Committee

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

A. Audit Committee
This Committee comprises of the following Directors viz.
Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee), Ms. Shikha
Sharma, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta and Mr. Haigreve Khaitan.
All the Members of the Committee are Independent Directors
and possess strong accounting and financial management
knowledge. The Company Secretary is the Secretary to
the Committee.
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The terms of reference of this Committee are very wide and
are in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by
the Act and Part C of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations.
Besides having access to all the required information from
within the Company, the Committee can obtain external
professional advice whenever required. The Committee acts
as a link between the Statutory and the Internal Auditors
and the Board of Directors of the Company. It is authorised
to, inter alia, review and monitor the Auditor’s independence
and performance, scope and effectiveness of audit process,
oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and
the disclosure of its financial information, review with the
management the quarterly and annual financial statements
and auditor’s report before submission to the Board for
approval, select and establish accounting policies, review
Reports of the Statutory and the Internal Auditors and
meet with them to discuss their findings, suggestions and
other related matters, to consider and grant prior approval
for the related party transactions including material related
party transactions in terms of Regulation 23 read with
Regulation 2(1)(zc) and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the Listing
Regulations, granting omnibus approvals for related party
transactions subject to fulfilment of certain conditions
and quarterly reviews thereof, approve transaction(s) of
the Company or any Subsidiaries of the Company on one
hand, and any other person or entity on the other hand, the
purpose and effect of which is to benefit a related party of
the Company or any Subsidiaries of the Company.
The Committee is also authorised to scrutinise intercorporate loans and investments, valuation of undertakings
or assets of the Company, review the risk assessment and
minimisation procedures, evaluate internal financial controls
and risk management systems, monitor end use of the funds
raised through public offers and related matters, review the
utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/ investment by
the Company in the subsidiary companies exceeding Rs. 100
crore or 10% of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever
is lower including existing loans/ advances / investments and
review compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015

164

(“PIT Regulations”) at least once in a financial year and verify
that the systems for internal control are adequate and are
operating effectively. The terms of reference are also in line
with the regulatory requirements mandated in the Act and
Listing Regulations.
The Committee is also empowered to, inter alia, recommend
the remuneration payable to the Statutory Auditors, availing
of such other permitted services from the Auditors and
to recommend a change in the Auditors, if felt necessary.
Further, the Committee is empowered to recommend
to the Board, the appointment of Chief Financial Officer,
the term of appointment and remuneration of the Cost
Auditor, Internal Auditor, etc., review the functioning of the
Whistle-blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism, to consider and
comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes
involving merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on the listed
entity and its shareholders. The Committee also reviews
Financial Statements and Investments of unlisted subsidiary
companies, Management Discussion & Analysis of financial
condition and results of operations.
The Audit Committee has been granted powers as prescribed
under Regulation 18(2)(c) of the Listing Regulations and
reviews all the information as prescribed in Part C of Schedule
II of the Listing Regulations. The Committee also reviews the
Report on compliance under Code of Conduct for Prevention
of Insider Trading adopted by the Company pursuant to PIT
Regulations. Further, Compliance Reports under the Sexual
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013 and Whistle-blower Policy are also
placed before the Committee.
During the year under review, the Audit Committee was
additionally authorised to review the report submitted
by monitoring agency for the utilization of proceeds of
preferential issue or qualified institutions placement in
addition to public issue or rights issue pursuant to Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) (Sixth Amendment) Regulations,
2022 dated 14th November, 2022.
Subsequent to the year end, Policy on Materiality of and
Dealing with Related Party Transactions was amended by
the Committee to make it more elaborate specifically in
view of further changes in the coverage of the related party
transactions with effect from 1st April, 2023.
Further, the Committee also considered and recommended to
the Board amendment in the Code of Conduct for Prevention
of Insider Trading in Securities of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
and Policy on Insider Trading inter alia to align it with the Insider
Trading Regulations and prohibit derivative transactions in the
Securities of the Company.

165

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Mr. T. N. Manoharan, Chairman of the Audit Committee, was
virtually present at the 76th AGM of the Company held
through Video Conferencing facility on 5th August, 2022
to address the Shareholders’ queries pertaining to Annual
Accounts of the Company.

The Meetings of the Audit Committee are also attended by the
Chairman, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer,
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector), Group
Chief Financial Officer, the Statutory Auditors, the Group Chief
Internal Auditor, the Controller of Accounts, the Chief Financial
Officer of Auto and Farm Sectors and the Company Secretary.

Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are
also passed by the Members. Subsequently, these
Circular Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after
the date on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by
the Members.

As required under the Secretarial Standard on General
Meetings, the Chairman of the Committee or, in his absence,
any other Member of the Committee authorised by him on
his behalf shall attend the General Meeting of the Company.

Composition and Attendance (in brief):

100%

4

8

100%

Independence

Members

Meetings

Attendance

The Committee met Eight times during the year under review on 27th May, 2022, 7th July, 2022, 4th August, 2022, 9th September,
2022, 10th November, 2022, 21st November, 2022, 9th February, 2023 and 14th March, 2023. The gap between two Meetings did
not exceed one hundred and twenty days. The attendance at the Meetings was as under:

Audit Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode

Name of the Members

Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman)

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

27th
May,
2022

7th
July,
2022

4th
August,
2022

9th
September,
2022

10th
November,
2022

21st
November,
2022

9th
February,
2023

14th
March,
2023

Hybrid

VC

Hybrid

VC

Physical

VC





Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan



% of attendance at a Meeting

100%

Attended through Video Conference





100%
Leave of Absence

100%



100%

Held
during the
Year

Attended

% of attendance
of a Member

Physical

Hybrid







8

8

100%





8

8

100%







8

8

100%



8

8

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Attended in-person

AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
Activities of the Committee during the year

Frequency

Reviewed Quarterly, Half yearly and Annual Standalone and Consolidated Financials of the Company prepared in accordance with the Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as specified under the Companies Act, 2013, read with the relevant rules thereunder

Q / A

Held discussions with the Statutory Auditors regarding the Company’s financial statements, scope of their Reports and sought the
auditors’ judgment on the quality and applicability of the accounting principles, the reasonableness of significant judgments, the
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements and other matters as the Committee deemed necessary

Q

Reviewed and approved the Audit Fees and Fees payable for other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors during the year under
review

A

Considered and made recommendation on the Remuneration payable to the Chief Internal Auditor and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company

A

Reviewed the performance of the Statutory Auditors and approved their Re-Appointment as Statutory Auditors for a Second Term of
5 (five) consecutive years and recommended the same to the Board

A / E

Reviewed with independent auditors, the nature and scope of the audit alongwith the review of audit engagement to ascertain
adequacy and appropriateness

E

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Activities of the Committee during the year

Frequency

Reviewed the Management Discussion and Analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company

A

Reviewed the Directors’ Responsibility Statement after making due enquiries from the Operating Management

A

Reviewed the internal audit findings, the action taken status and other matters concerning the internal audit function of the Company
and the Group and reviewed the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor

Q / A

Reviewed the utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/investment by the Company in the subsidiaries exceeding Rs. 100 crores or
10% of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower

Q

Reviewed and granted prior approval for transactions with related parties including material related party transactions in terms of
Regulation 23 read with Regulation 2(1)(zc) and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the Listing Regulations, approved specific arrangements/
transactions, granted omnibus approval for transactions proposed to be entered with related parties, within the maximum limit per
transaction and maximum limit in the aggregate, granted omnibus approval to cover unforeseen related party transactions and
reviewed related party transactions entered into by the Company for previous quarter pursuant to the prior and omnibus approvals
accorded by the Committee and recommended to the Board for onward recommendation to the Shareholders for approval as and
when necessary

Q / A

Reviewed the risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that executive Management controls risk through means of a
properly defined framework and risk management systems, etc.

Q

Reviewed the Audited financial statements, in particular the investments made by all unlisted subsidiary companies and all significant
transactions and arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary companies

A

Approved the other services proposed to be rendered by the Statutory Auditors, directly or indirectly

A / E

Reviewed and approved the proposed amendments in the terms of reference of the Committee including review of the report
submitted by monitoring agency for the utilization of proceeds of preferential issue or qualified institutions placement in addition to
public issue or rights issue

E

Noted the Material Subsidiary(ies) of the Company

A

Monitored and reviewed the mechanism to track the compliances under SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 and
also reviewed the compliance updates in addition to the investigations of the Whistle-blower Complaints received alongwith Report
under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013

Q

Considered and approved the appointment of Cost Auditors, remuneration payable to them and the Cost Audit Report and recommended
the same to the Board

A

Reviewed and approved amendments to Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment of the Company

E

Held meeting with the Representatives of the Credit Rating Agencies which have rated the Non-Convertible Debentures issued by /
long term borrowings of the Company

A

Reviewed compliance of Insider Trading Regulations and Systems for Internal Controls for prevention of Insider Trading

A

Frequency A Annually Q Quarterly E Event Based

166

167

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

B. Governance, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

with the criteria laid down, recommending to the Board their
appointment and removal and carrying out evaluation of
every Director’s performance.

All Committee Members are Independent Directors including the
Chairman. The Members are Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta (Chairman
of the Committee), Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, Ms. Nisaba Godrej
and Ms. Shikha Sharma. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman,
Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
and Mr. Ruzbeh Irani, President - Group HR are permanent
invitees to the Committee.

The Committee has also formulated the criteria for determining
qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a
Director and recommended to the Board a Policy relating to
the remuneration for the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel
and other Employees. This policy has also been posted on
the website of the Company and can be accessed in the
Governance section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.

Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:

The Committee has undertaken a structured and
comprehensive succession planning program over a period
of time and has carried out a rigorous review for an orderly
Succession to the Board and the Senior Management.

The Committee has been vested with the authority to,
inter alia, recommend nominations for Board Membership,
develop and recommend policies with respect to composition
of the Board commensurate with the size, nature of the
business and operations of the Company, establish criteria
for selection to the Board with respect to the competencies,
qualifications, experience, track record, integrity, establish
Director retirement policies and appropriate succession plans
and determine overall compensation policies of the Company.

The Committee carries out a separate exercise to evaluate
the performance of Individual Directors. Feedback is sought
by way of structured questionnaires covering various
aspects of the Board’s functioning such as adequacy of the
composition of the Board and its Committees, Board culture,
execution and performance of specific duties, obligations and
governance. The performance evaluation is carried out based
on the responses received from the Directors.

The Committee also administers the Company’s Employee
Stock Option Schemes formulated from time to time including
“Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option
Scheme – 2000”, “Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees
Stock Option Scheme – 2010” and takes appropriate decisions
in terms of the concerned Scheme(s).

The performance evaluation of Independent Directors was
based on various criteria, inter alia, including attendance at
Board and Committee Meetings, skill, experience, ability to
challenge views of others in a constructive manner, knowledge
acquired with regard to the Company’s business, understanding
of industry and global trends, etc. During the year under
review, the Committee ascertained and reconfirmed that the
deployment of “questionnaire” as a methodology, is effective
for evaluation of performance of Board and Committees and
Individual Directors.

The terms of reference of this Committee are aligned with
the Listing Regulations and the Act.
The coverage of “Senior Management” of the Company was
widened pursuant to an amendment to the Listing Regulations
and consequently the “Policy on Appointment of Directors
and Senior Management and Succession Planning for Orderly
Succession to the Board and the Senior Management” has
been amended.

The Committee is also empowered to opine, in respect of the
services rendered by a Director in professional capacity and
whether such Director possesses requisite qualification for the
practice of the profession. As per section 178(7) of the Act
and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, the Chairman
of the Committee or, in his absence, any other Member of
the Committee authorised by him in this behalf shall attend
the General Meetings of the Company. The Chairman of the
Committee, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta was virtually present at
the 75th AGM of the Company held through Video Conferencing
facility on 5th August, 2022.

The scope of the Committee inter alia includes review of market
practices and deciding on remuneration packages applicable
to the Chairman, Managing Director, the Executive Director(s),
Presidents and other Members of Senior Management as may
be decided from time to time (including the Chief Financial
Officer and Company Secretary).
In addition to the above, the Committee’s role includes
identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors and
who may be appointed in Senior Management in accordance

Composition and Attendance (in brief):

100%

4

5

100%

Independence

Members

Meetings

Attendance

The Committee met five times during the year under review on 27th May, 2022, 4th August, 2022, 10th November, 2022,
10th February, 2023 and 14th March, 2023.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

168

The attendance at the Meetings was as under:

Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode

Name of the Members

1

2

3

4

5

27th

4th

10th

10th

May,
2022

August,
2022

November,
2022

February,
2023

14th
March,
2023

Hybrid

Hybrid

Hybrid

Hybrid

Hybrid













Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta (Chairman)
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan



Ms. Shikha Sharma





100%

100%



Ms. Nisaba Godrej
% of attendance at a Meeting
Attended through Video Conference

100%



100%

Leave of Absence



Held
during the
Year

Attended

% of attendance
of a Member

5

5

100%

5

5

100%

5

5

100%

5

5

100%

100%

Attended in-person

GOVERNANCE, NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED
31ST MARCH, 2023:
Activities of the Committee during the year

Frequency

Finalisation of the process of evaluation and carrying out evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees, Directors and
Chairman of the Company and mapping of chart / matrix of core skill/ expertise/ competencies of the Board

A

Approved and recommended to the Board amendments to Gift and Entertainment Policy and Code of Conduct for stakeholders

E

Grant of Stock Options to the Eligible Employees under the Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme – 2010
and cancellation of Stock Options in certain cases
Remuneration and Performance Pay to be paid to the Wholetime Directors
Benchmarking of remuneration of Senior Management and approved and recommended to the Board remuneration of Senior Management
Redesignation of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as “Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)”

A / E
A
A / E
E

Frequency A Annual E Event Based

C. Stakeholders Relationship Committee
The Company’s Stakeholders Relationship Committee functions under the Chairmanship of Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, Independent
Director. The Board at its Meeting held on 28th May, 2022 had re-constituted the Stakeholders Relationship Committee and appointed
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan in place of Dr. Anish Shah. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra and Dr. Vishakha N. Desai are the other Members of the
Committee.
Mr. Narayan Shankar, Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the Company.
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The Committee meets, as and when required, to inter alia, deal with matters relating to issue of duplicate share certificates, issue
of new share certificates (including for transfer to Investor Education & Protection Fund as per the provisions of the Act and Rules
framed thereunder), resolve the grievances of security holders of the Company including complaints related to dematerialisation
of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, etc., review of measures taken for effective exercise
of voting rights by shareholders, review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of services
being rendered by the Registrar & Transfer Agent, review of various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing
the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/demand drafts/annual reports/statutory
notices by the Shareholders of the Company. With a view to expedite the process of transmission, necessary authority has been
delegated to certain officers of the Company. The Committee is authorised to approve request for transmission of shares and issue
of duplicate share certificates.
The role and terms of reference of the Committee cover the areas as contemplated under Regulation 20 read with Part D of Schedule
II of the Listing Regulations and Section 178 of the Act, as applicable, besides other terms as referred by the Board of Directors.
During the year under review, the terms of reference of the Committee were amended to include looking into various aspects
of matters related to all Security Holders, inter alia, covering Non-Convertible Debenture Holders and Commercial Paper Holders.

169

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

As per section 178(7) of the Act and the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, the Chairman of the Committee or, in his
absence, any other Member of the Committee authorised by him in this behalf shall attend the General Meetings of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Haigreve Khaitan was virtually present at the 76th AGM of the Company held through Video
Conferencing facility on 5th August, 2022.
Apart from the Meeting(s), urgent business (including approvals for issue of duplicate Share Certificates) was transacted through
Circular Resolution(s). Subsequently, these Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after the date on which the Circular
Resolution(s) is/are passed by the Members.

Composition and Attendance (in brief):

75%

4

4

100%

Independence

Members

Meetings

Attendance

The Committee met four times during the year under review on 27th May, 2022, 4th August, 2022, 10th November, 2022 and
9th February, 2023. The attendance at the Meetings was as under:

Stakeholders Relationship Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode

Name of the Members

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan (Chairman)

1

2

3

4

27th
May,
2022

4th
August,
2022

10th
November,
2022

9th
February,
2023

Hybrid

Physical

Hybrid

Physical







Held
during the
Year

Attended

% of attendance
of a Member



4

4

100%

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra





4

4

100%

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai





4

4

100%

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan*

N.A.





3

3

100%

Dr. Anish Shah**



N.A.

N.A.

N.A.

1

1

100%

% of attendance at a Meeting

100%

100%

100%

100%



Leave of Absence

Attended through Video Conference



Attended in-person

Appointed as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, 2022.

*
** Ceased as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, 2022.

* Appointed as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, 2022.
** Ceased as Member of the Committee with effect from 28th May, 2022.

STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
Activities of the Committee during the year

Frequency

Reviewed compliances related to Share Transfer Agent activities of KFin Technologies Limited and Investor Related Compliances

Q

Review of Investor Grievances

Q

Approved issuance of new share certificate for transfer of shares to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), approved transfer
of shares to IEPF and related matters

A

Reviewed measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders

P

Reviewed various initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of
dividend warrants/ annual reports/ statutory notices by the shareholders of the Company

P

Reviewed adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various services being rendered by the Registrar
& Share Transfer Agent (RTA)

P

Noted release of shares from Mahindra & Mahindra Limited - Unclaimed Securities Suspense Account

P

Noted status of Legal Case(s) pertaining to shares

Q

Took note of status of various accounts relating to payment of investor dues

Q

Took note of the annual audit report submitted by the independent auditors on the annual internal audit conducted on the RTA
operations as mandated by SEBI

A

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Activities of the Committee during the year

170

Frequency

Approved issue of Duplicate Share Certificates

E

Status of Debentures and Commercial Papers

Q

Allotment of Shares pursuant to merger

E

Frequency A Annual Q Quarterly P Periodically E Event Based

 Details of Shareholders’/ Investors’ Complaints:

Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:

During the Financial Year ended 31 March, 2023, 34
complaints were received from shareholders, all of which
have been attended/resolved to the satisfaction of the
Shareholders. As of date, there are no pending complaints
pertaining to the year under review.

The Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee
is a Committee constituted by the Board with powers,
inter alia, to make contributions to Charitable and/or CSR
projects or programs to be implemented directly through
its ESOPs (Employee Social Options) programme or through
implementing partners which include a company established
under section 8 of the Act or a registered public trust or a
registered society exempted or registered and approved under
Income Tax Act, 1961 established by the company or company
established under section 8 of the Act or a registered trust or
a registered society established by the Central Government or
State Government or any entity established under an Act of
Parliament or a State legislature or a registered public trust
or a registered society exempted or registered and approved
and having an established track record of at least three years
in undertaking similar activities, of at least two percent of the
Company’s average net profits during the three immediately
preceding Financial Years in pursuance of its CSR Policy for
the Company’s CSR Initiatives.

st

 Trend of Complaints and Number of Shareholders during last
5 years:
Financial Year

2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23

Total No. of
Complaints received
and resolved
No. of Shareholders
as on 31st March

47

29

11

30

34

3,54,817 4,22,292 4,44,755 6,32,821 6,47,146

50

700000

40
35

600000

22

30

14

20
15

11

6

25

20

500000

400000

17

Number of Shareholders

Number of Complaints

45

D. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee

The scope of functions of the Committee inter alia include,
formulation and recommendation to the Board, an Annual
Action Plan in pursuance of CSR Policy of the Company
including CSR projects or programmes that are approved
to be undertaken, manner of execution of such projects
or programmes, modalities of utilisation of funds and
implementation schedule(s), monitoring and reporting
mechanism, need and impact assessment, if any, for the
projects undertaken by the Company, recommendation of the
amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities
as enumerated in Schedule VII of the Act and also referred
to in the CSR Policy of the Company, as also to monitor the
CSR Policy from time to time, etc.

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Independent Director is the Chairperson
of the Committee. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Dr. Anish Shah,
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta and Mr. Muthiah Murugappan are
the other Members of the Committee. Out of the total
number of Members of the Committee, three Members are
Independent Directors.

During the year under review, the terms of reference of the
Committee were amended pursuant to the commitment
of the Company towards sustainable business practices
and the increasing adaptability of Environment, Social and
Governance (ESG) framework by all companies. The amended
terms of reference inter alia include the following:

9

10
5
0

5

6

2018-19

2019-20

5
5
1
2020-21

19

7
2021-22

4

300000

200000

2022-23

Non receipt of Dividend

Non receipt of share certificate

Others

Total No. of shareholders

Your Company has taken adequate measures to resolve
the complaints of the shareholders. In order to expedite
the process of redressal of shareholders’ grievances, the
Company has introduced an escalation matrix, which can
be accessed at https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
policies-and-documents.

171

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

•	Recommend to the Board, the Company’s overall general
strategy with respect to Environment, Social and
Governance (“ESG”) matters;

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

deletions/additions/new ESG /Sustainability policies to
the Board for its approval;
•	Ensure compliance in relation to the policies created
for or linked to the 9 key principles of the ‘National
Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and
Economic Responsibilities of Business’;

•	Ensure ESG and social considerations in the Company’s
business operations and build a culture of Sustainable
Business;
•	Ensure compliance with the Sustainability initiatives
by Regulators including but not limited to Business
Responsibility Report/Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report and recommend the same to the
Board;

•	Ensure in concurrence with the Risk Management
Committee that the ESG risks pertaining to the Company
are minimal and effectively managed.
The CSR Policy of your Company, in alignment with the
CSR provisions is available on the website of the Company
and can be accessed in the Governance section at the
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments.

•	Monitor and ensure the effective implementation of
ESG policies of the Company and recommend changes/

Composition and Attendance (in brief):

60%

5

3

100%

Independence

Members

Meetings

Attendance

The Committee met 3 times during the year under review on 27th May, 2022, 10th November, 2022 and 14th March, 2023. The
attendance at the Meetings was as under:

Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode

Name of the Members

1

2

3

27th

May,
2022

10th

November,
2022

14th
March,
2023

Hybrid

Hybrid

Hybrid

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai (Chairperson)
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra



Dr. Anish Shah



Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan



% of attendance at a Meeting

100%

Attended through Video Conference



Leave of Absence







100%



Held
during the
Year

Attended

% of attendance of
a Member

3

3

100%

3

3

100%

3

3

100%

3

3

100%

3

3

100%

100%
Attended in-person

CSR COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023:
Activities of the Committee during the year

Frequency

Considered and recommended to the Board, Business Responsibility Report and Corporate Social Responsibility Report of the Company
for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report of the Company

A

Noted the enlarged scope of the Committee which includes Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) related matters considering the
commitment of the Company towards sustainable business practices and the increasing adaptability of ESG framework by all companies.

E

Reviewed the Company’s Business Responsibility and sustainability Performance, the projects and programs under Corporate Social
Responsibility Projects of the Company, status of utilization of fund(s) by the Implementing Agencies for the Financial Year

P

Considered and approved the CSR Projects for the Financial Year and recommended the same to the Board

A / E

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Activities of the Committee during the year

172

Frequency

Considered and approved revised CSR Budget for the Financial Year and amendment to the Annual Action Plan for the Financial Year
and recommended the same to the Board

A / E

Considered and approved amendment in the CSR Policy of the Company and recommended the same to the Board

A / E

Noted the amendments and clarification issued by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) in the CSR Provisions from time to time

E

Considered and recommended to the Board Annual Action Plan of the Company for the next financial year

A

Noted the Status of the Impact Assessment Studies for the Projects qualifying for Impact Assessment for the Financial Year

P

Frequency A Annually P Periodically E Event based

E. Risk Management Committee
Regulation 21 of the Listing Regulations mandates constitution
of the Risk Management Committee. The Committee is required
to lay down the procedures to inform the Board about the risk
assessment and minimisation procedures and the Board shall be
responsible for framing, implementing and monitoring the Risk
Management Plan of the Company. The Board has constituted a
Risk Management Committee (‘RMC’). The Committee is chaired
by Mr. T. N. Manoharan. The other Members are Dr. Anish Shah,
Ms. Shikha Sharma, Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
and Mr. Haigreve Khaitan.

b.	Measures for risk mitigation including systems and
processes for internal control of identified risks; and
c.

Business continuity plan.

2.	Ensuring that appropriate methodology, processes and
systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks
associated with the business of the Company.
3.	Monitoring and overseeing implementation of the risk
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy
of risk management systems.

During the year, Mr. T. N. Manoharan was appointed as
Chairman of the Committee with effect from 28th May, 2022
and Dr. Anish Shah ceased to be Chairman of the Committee
with effect from that date and continues as a Member.

4.	Periodically reviewing the risk management policy
(at least once in two years) including by considering
the changing industry dynamics and evolving
complexity.

Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The terms of the reference of RMC are wide and are in line
with the regulatory requirements of the Listing Regulations
and inter alia include:

5.	Keeping the Board of Directors informed about the
nature and content of its discussions, recommendations
and actions to be taken.

1.	Formulation of a detailed risk management policy which
shall include:
a.	Framework for identification of internal and external
risks specifically faced by the listed entity, in particular
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber
security risks or any other risk as may be determined
by RMC;

6.	Reviewing the appointment, removal and terms of
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any).
Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are also
passed by the Members. Subsequently, these Circular
Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after the date
on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by the
Members.

Composition and Attendance (in brief):

67%

6

3

100%

Independence

Members

Meetings

Attendance

173

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

The Committee met thrice during the year under review on 4th August, 2022, 10th November, 2022 and 14th March, 2023. The
attendance at the Meetings was as under:

Risk Management Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode

Name of the Members

1

2

3

4th
August,
2022

10th
November,
2022

14th
March,
2023

Held
during the
Year

Attended

% of attendance of
a Member

Hybrid

Physical

Hybrid

Mr. T. N. Manoharan* (Chairman)







3

3

100%

Dr. Anish Shah**







3

3

100%

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar







3

3

100%



3

3

100%

3

3

100%

3

3

100%

Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta





Mr. Haigreve Khaitan







% of attendance at a Meeting

100%

100%

100%

Attended through Video Conference



Leave of Absence



Attended in-person

Appointed as Chairman of the Committee with effect from 28th May, 2022.

*
** Ceased to be Chairman of the Committee with effect from 28th May, 2022 and continues to be a Member.

RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
Activities of the Committee during the year

Frequency

Considered and approved the appointment and the terms of remuneration of Chief Risk Officer of the Company

E

Reviewed various Risks emerging from Russia & Ukraine war & China -Taiwan Escalation - Impact on AFS, Supplies, Business entity risk
scorecard, Portfolio risk scorecard, Discussion on unknown risks, Macro-economic & Global Scenario, frontier risk, etc.

E

Reviewed the Risk Management Policy (Enterprises Risk Management Policy) of the Company and Proposed Enterprises Risk
Management framework of the Company and suggested changes to be incorporated therein

E

Reviewed the Risk Certificate covering risk management measures and controls and made recommendation to the Audit Committee
and the Board

P

Reviewed the Risk Management Report, Risk Mitigation Measures as prescribed under the Risk Management Policy alongwith Extreme
Risks their impact, likelihood and exposure and presented the same to the Audit Committee and the Board

P

Reviewed the risks for the financial year and presented the same to the Audit Committee and the Board

A / P

Frequency A Annually P Periodically E Event based

F. Strategic Investment Committee (A voluntary initiative of your Company)
The Strategic Investment Committee is a voluntary Committee of your Company and Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman of
the Committee. Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Mr. T. N. Manoharan, Ms. Shikha Sharma and Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma are other Members
of the Committee. Apart from the Committee Members, the Committee Meetings are also invariably attended by the other
Directors as Invitees.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

174

Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
This Committee is constituted by the Board with powers, inter alia, to evaluate, scrutinize and consider all proposals for funding
including but not limited to making Investment in, providing Loan to, providing Guarantee for any Subsidiary, Associate, Joint
Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate, business acquisitions where Cumulative exposure in such entity
is above the specified threshold and make appropriate recommendations to the Board, Operation reviews for such Subsidiary,
Associate, Joint Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate, Evaluate, scrutinise and approve disinvestments
(total or partial) / exit from such Subsidiary, Associate, Joint Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate,
approve Merger or De-Merger or Arrangement within Group companies as specified, approve entry into new industries (greenfield,
acquisition of majority stake or path to majority), etc.
Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are also passed by the Members. Subsequently, these Resolution(s) are noted in
the Meeting held after the date on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by the Members.

Composition and Attendance (in brief):

60%

5

5

96%

Independence

Members

Meetings

Attendance

The Committee met five times during the year under review on 27th May, 2022, 4th August, 2022, 10th November, 2022,
9th February, 2023 and 14th March, 2023. The attendance at the Meetings was as under:

Strategic Investment Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode
Name of the Members

1
27th
May,
2022
Hybrid

2
4th
August,
2022
Hybrid

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (Chairman)



Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta



Mr. T. N. Manoharan



3
10th
November,
2022
Hybrid







Ms. Shikha Sharma

Attended through Video Conference

100%



100%

Leave of Absence



5
14th
March,
2023
Hybrid





Held
during
the year

Attended

% of attendance
of a Member

5

5

100%



5

5

100%



5

5

100%

5

5

100%

5

4

80%










100%

80%

100%

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
% of attendance at a Meeting

4
9th
February,
2023
Physical

Attended in-person

STRATEGIC INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH, 2023
Activities of the Committee during the year

Frequency

Considered, reviewed and approved significant investments/funding to be made by the Company and taking note of outstanding debt,
if any, and recommended the same to the Board

Q / E

Noted business updates from various subsidiaries, restructuring within certain group companies, approved shares exchange/swap,
dilution of stake, transfer of Assets and/or business/hiving off, entering into new line of business, etc. and made suitable recommendation
to the Board as and when required

Q / E

Monitored and reviewed the existing investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and other group entities including overseeing the
performance of various sectors/companies

Q / P

Considered and reviewed proposed divestments in certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and other group entities and made suitable
recommendations to the Board

E

Frequency Q Quarterly P Periodically E Event based

175

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

V. SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Regulation 16 of the Listing Regulations defines a “material
subsidiary” to mean a subsidiary, whose income or net worth
exceeds ten percent of the consolidated income or net
worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in
the immediately preceding accounting year.
Under this definition, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited (MMFSL) (Listed) is a material subsidiary
of the Company, formed on 1st January, 1991 at Mumbai.
Further, M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, Chartered Accountants
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 117365W) and M/s. Mukund
M. Chitale & Co., Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm
Registration No. 106655W) are the Joint Statutory Auditors
of MMFSL, appointed for a period of 2 (two) consecutive years,
to hold office from conclusion of the 32nd AGM of MMFSL
held on 28th July, 2022 till conclusion of the 34th AGM of
MMFSL to be held in the year 2024.
The subsidiaries of the Company function independently, with
an adequately empowered Board of Directors and adequate
resources. For more effective governance, the minutes of
Board Meetings of subsidiaries of the Company are placed
before the Board of Directors of the Company for their
review at every quarterly Meeting.
In addition to the above, Regulation 24 of the Listing
Regulations requires that at least one Independent Director
on the Board of Directors of the listed entity shall be a
Director on the Board of Directors of an unlisted material
subsidiary, whether incorporated in India or not. For the
purpose of this provision, material subsidiary means a
subsidiary, whose income or net worth exceeds twenty
percent of the consolidated income or net worth respectively,
of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately
preceding accounting year.
There is no Subsidiary which falls under this definition of
unlisted material subsidiary for the financial year ended
31st March, 2023.
The other requirements of Regulation 24 of the Listing
Regulations with regard to Corporate Governance
requirements for Subsidiary Companies have been complied
with.

VI. DISCLOSURES
A. Policy
for
subsidiaries

determining

‘material’

Your Company has formulated a Policy for determining
‘Material’ Subsidiaries as defined in Regulation 16 of the Listing
Regulations. This Policy has been posted on the website of the

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Company and can be accessed in the Governance section at the
Web-link https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policiesand-documents.

B. Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with
Related Party Transactions

Your Company has formulated a Policy on Materiality of
and Dealing with Related Party Transactions (“RPT Policy”)
which specifies the manner of entering into related party
transactions. Subsequent to the year end, the RPT Policy was
reviewed and amended with a view to make it more elaborate
specifically in view of the changes in the coverage of the
related party transactions with effect from 1st April, 2023.
The updated RPT Policy has also been posted on the website
of the Company and can be accessed in the Governance
section at the Web-link https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/policies-and-documents.

C. Disclosure of Transactions with Related
Parties
During the Financial Year 2022-23, there were no materially
significant transactions or arrangements entered into between
the Company and its Promoters, Directors or their Relatives
or the Management, Subsidiaries, etc. that may have potential
conflict with the interests of the Company at large. Further,
details of related party transactions are presented in Note
No.39 to Annual Accounts in the Annual Report.
In addition to the above and as required under the Listing
Regulations, the Company is in compliance with the
Accounting Standards on related party disclosures, has been
submitting disclosures of related party transactions to the
Stock Exchanges in the prescribed format from time to time
and also publishing it on the website of the Company.

D. 
Disclosure of Accounting Treatment in
preparation of Financial Statements
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS“) as per the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as
amended and notified under section 133 of the Act and
other relevant provisions of the Act.

E. 
Code for Prevention of Insider Trading
Practices
The Company has formulated and adopted the ‘Code of
Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished
Price Sensitive Information’ which, inter alia, includes Policy
for determination of ‘Legitimate Purpose’ and ‘Code of
Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading in Securities of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited’ (“M&M Code of Conduct”) in
compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of India

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 (“Insider
Trading Regulations”).
M&M Code of Conduct has been formulated to regulate,
monitor and ensure reporting of trading by the Designated
Persons and their immediate relatives towards achieving
compliance with the Insider Trading Regulations and is
designed to maintain the highest ethical standards of trading
in Securities of the Company by persons to whom it is
applicable. The Code lays down Guidelines, which advise them
on procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made, while
dealing with securities of the Company and caution them of
the consequences of violations. Subsequent to the year end,
the M&M Code of Conduct was amended to inter alia align it
with the Insider Trading Regulations and to restrict trading in
Derivative transactions in the Securities of the Company.

F. Policy and procedure for inquiry in case of

leak/suspected leak of Unpublished Price
Sensitive Information

The Company has formulated the ‘Policy and procedure
for inquiry in case of leak / suspected leak of Unpublished
Price Sensitive Information’ (’UPSI’). The Policy is formulated
to maintain ethical standards in dealing with sensitive
information of the Company by persons who have access to
UPSI. The rationale of the Policy is to strengthen the internal
control systems to ensure that UPSI is not communicated
to any person except in accordance with the Insider Trading
Regulations. The Policy also provides an investigation
procedure in case of leak/suspected leak of UPSI.

G. Whistle-blower Policy
The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Act and the
Rules prescribed thereunder and the Listing Regulations is
implemented through the Code of Conduct, Whistle-blower and
other Governance Policies and the Vigil Mechanism frameworks.
The Company has taken adequate measures to create
awareness amongst its employees on the Code of Conduct
and Governance Policies through regular face to face/
E‑learning sessions. The Company has provided a third-party
whistleblowing helpline service through an external service
provider. The Ethics helpline service includes toll free number,
web portal access and e-mail facilities. This helpline serves
as platform under vigil mechanism for all stakeholders to
raise any concerns on unethical behaviour and provided by
Convercent, a Global service provider.
•

Helpline No: 000 800 100 4175

	The toll-free helpline number is available in English and
Multiple Languages.
•	Url: https://ethics.mahindra.com/ is available in 5 prominent
languages (Tamil, Telugu, Spanish, English, Hindi).

176

Direct complaints can also be raised with the Chairman of
the Audit Committee through the third-party web portal
at the link mentioned above or by sending an email to
chairpersonofauditcommittee@mahindra.com or by sending a
letter to the below address:
Chairperson of the Audit Committee,
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
P. K. Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai – 400 018.
The Whistle-blower Policy has an established reporting
mechanism for Stakeholders to report concerns about
unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or violation
of the Code, including insider trading violations and reporting
instances of leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information
by the employees. Under the Vigil Mechanism, the employees
are encouraged to voice their concerns and all stakeholders
have been provided access to the Audit Committee through
the Chairperson. No personnel have been denied access to the
Audit Committee. The Policy provides for adequate safeguards
against victimization of persons who use the mechanism.
The Whistle-blower Policy was updated during the year, the
details of which may be referred to in the Board’s Report.
During the course of the year the Vigil framework and
systems for timely and conclusive resolution of compliance
concerns have been standardized and further strengthened.
The Whistle-blower Policy of the Company is available on
the website of the Company and can be accessed in the
Governance section at the Web-link https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.

VII. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
The Company recognizes the importance of two-way
communication with Shareholders and of giving a balanced
reporting of results and progress. Full and timely disclosure
of information regarding the Company’s financial position
and performance is an important part of your Company’s
corporate governance ethos.
Your Company follows a robust process of communicating
with its stakeholders, security holders and investors through
multiple channels of communications such as dissemination
of information on the website of the Stock Exchanges,
Press Releases, the Annual Reports and uploading relevant
information on its website.
 Financial Results:

The unaudited quarterly results are announced within fortyfive days of the close of each quarter, other than the last
quarter. The audited annual results are announced within
sixty days from the end of the financial year as required
under the Listing Regulations. The aforesaid financial results
are announced to the Stock Exchanges within the statutory
time period from the conclusion of the Board Meeting(s) at
which these are considered and approved.

177

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

 Other Information:

 Analyst/Institutional Investors Presentations

Your Company discloses to the Stock Exchanges, all
information required to be disclosed under Regulation 30
read with Part ‘A’ and Part ‘B’ of Schedule III of the Listing
Regulations including material information having a bearing
on the performance/ operations of the Company and
other price sensitive information. All information is filed
electronically on the online portal of BSE Limited – Corporate
Compliance & Listing Centre (BSE Listing Centre) and on
the online portals of National Stock Exchange of India
Limited – NSE’s Electronic Application Processing System
(NEAPS). The information to the Stock Exchanges located
outside India is filed through electronic means or other
permissible means.

The Company hosts calls with institutional investors/analyst
post quarterly/half-yearly and the audited financial results
are announced and on request. Presentations are also made
to international and domestic institutional investors and
analysts. These presentations and other disclosures which
are required to be disseminated are filed electronically with
the Stock Exchanges as well as uploaded on the Company’s
website viz.: https://www.mahindra.com and as per the
Archival Policy of the Company, would be hosted on the
website for a minimum period of five years from the date of
respective disclosures. In addition to the above, the Company
also uploads transcripts of post earnings/quarterly calls and
Audio Visual recordings on the website of the Company.

The details of Investors/Analyst interactions held during the year under review are as follows:
Investors/Analyst Interactions - FY 2022-23
Particulars

One on
one /Group
Interactions*

Conferences**
/Non-Deal
Roadshows

Company
events***

Keynote address
at Investor
Forums by Senior
Management

Total

Number of Meetings
Number of Hours spent

135
135

112
112

10
15

7
7

264
269

*
**
***

Includes Plant/R&D centre visit, New Product launch, Dealer visit/test drive, specific events, etc.
25 Conferences
Includes quarterly earnings calls/analyst meet, specific events, etc.

The Annual Report of the Company, the quarterly/halfyearly and the audited financial statements and the official
news releases of the Company are also disseminated on
the Company’s website. The quarterly, half-yearly and
yearly results are also published in Free Press Journal /
Business Standard and Sakal which are national and local
dailies respectively. These are not sent individually to the
Shareholders.
 FAQs for the Shareholders

The Investor Relations page of the Company’s website
provides more than 50 Frequently Asked Questions on
various topics related to transfers and transmissions of
shares, dematerialisation, nomination, change of address,
loss of share certificates, dividend and sub-division of share
certificates. In addition, various downloadable forms required
to be executed by the Shareholders have also been provided
on the website of the Company viz. https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/reports.
 Investor Services Web-based Query Redressal System

Members may utilise the facility extended by the Registrar
and Transfer Agent for redressal of queries, by visiting https://
ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/InvestorGrievance.aspx.

Investors can submit their query in the option provided
on the above website, which would generate a reference
number. For accessing the status / response to the query
submitted, the grievance reference number can be used at
the option “Track your query” at the left-hand corner of
above website. Investors can continue to put an additional
query, if any, relating to the grievance till they get a
satisfactory reply.
Investors can provide their feedback on the services provided
by the Company and its Registrar and Transfer Agent by
filling the Shareholder Satisfaction Survey form available
in Investor Relations page on website of the Company at
the web link: https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
reports.
 KPRISM Mobile service application by KFintech

Members are requested to note that KFin Technologies
Limited (KFintech) has a mobile application - KPRISM and
a website https://kprism.kfintech.com for online service to
Members.
Members can download the mobile application from play store,
register themselves (one time) for availing host of services
viz., view of consolidated portfolio serviced by KFintech,
Dividend status, request for change of address, change/

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

update Bank Mandate. Through the Mobile app, members can
download Annual Reports, standard forms and keep track
of upcoming General Meetings and dividend disbursement.
In addition, members can also visit the Investor Service
Center (ISC) webpage, https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/
isc/default.aspx and get benefitted from the list of services
that can be executed from the page like raising or tracking a
query, upload tax exemptions forms, view the Demat / Remat
request, check dividend status and download required ISR
forms and check KYC status for Physical Folios.
The mobile application would
be available for download from
Android Play Store. The Members
may alternatively visit the link
https://kprism.kfintech.com/app/ to
download the mobile application
or scan the QR Code:

VIII. GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Pursuant to General Circular No. 20/2020 issued by Ministry
of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) dated 5th May, 2020 read together
with MCA General Circular Nos. 14 & 17/2020 dated
8th April, 2020 and 13th April, 2020 respectively read with
MCA General Circular No. 10/2022 dated 28th December,
2022, companies whose AGMs are due in the Year 2023 are
allowed to conduct their AGM through video conferencing
(VC) or other audio visual means (OAVM) on or before
30th September, 2023. Accordingly, your Company will be
conducting the AGM through VC/ OAVM facility. Members
can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode 30 minutes before
the scheduled time of the commencement of the Meeting
by following the procedure mentioned in the Notice of AGM
and this mode will be available throughout the proceedings
of the AGM.
In addition to conducting the AGM through VC/OAVM, the
Company would also be providing one-way live webcast
of the proceedings of the AGM. Members who are entitled
to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of
AGM by logging on the e-meetings website of KFintech at
https://emeetings.kfintech.com using their secure login
credentials.

178

During the live AGM, Members may post their queries in
the message box provided on the screen or may submit
questions in advance on the email ID of the Company
investors@mahindra.com.
In case of any query and/or help, in respect of
attending AGM through VC/OAVM, Members may Visit
https://emeetings.kfintech.com
(KFintech
Website)
or
contact at investors@mahindra.com or Ms. Sheetal Doba,
Manager - Corporate Registry, KFintech at Selenium,
Tower B, Plot No. 31-32, Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Hyderabad, Telangana – 500 032 or
at the email ID evoting@kfintech.com or on phone No.:
040-6716 1509 or call KFintech’s toll free No.:
1800-3094-001 for any further clarifications.
1.

77th Annual General Meeting
Date
:
4th August, 2023
Day		
:
Friday
Time
:
3:00 p.m. (IST)
Venue :	Meeting through VC/OAVM

2. Financial Year of the Company
	The financial year covers the period from 1st April to
31st March.
3. Date of Book Closure and Dividend Payment Date
	Book Closure for Dividend will be from Saturday,
15th July, 2023 to Friday, 4th August, 2023, both days
inclusive and the Dividend would be paid/dispatched
after 4th August, 2023.
4.	Listing of Ordinary (Equity) Shares, Debentures on
Stock Exchanges and Stock Code
	Your Company’s Ordinary (Equity) Shares are listed
on BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange
of India Limited (NSE). The Global Depository Receipts
(GDRs) of your Company are listed on the Luxembourg
Stock Exchange and are also admitted for trading on
International Order Book (IOB) of the London Stock
Exchange. The requisite listing fees have been paid in full
to all these Stock Exchanges.
	The Company’s privately placed Non-Convertible
Debentures (NCDs) are listed on the Debt Segment
of BSE.

179

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

	Ordinary (Equity) Shares and GDRs:
Name and Address of the
Exchanges

Type of Security/
Scrip Code

BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street, Fort,
Mumbai – 400 001.

Ordinary (Equity)
Shares/500520

National Stock Exchange of India
Limited,
Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G,
Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400 051.

Ordinary (Equity)
Shares/M&M

Bourse de Luxembourg
Society de la Bourse de Luxembourg,
Societe Anonyme/R.C.B. 6222,
B.P. 165, L-2011, Luxembourg.

Global Depository
Receipts (GDRs)

London Stock Exchange Plc,
10, Paternoster Square,
London – EC4M 7LS.

GDRs/MHID

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

	Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs)
International
Securities
Identification
Number (ISIN)

INE101A01026

International
Securities
Identification
Number (ISIN)

Name and Address of the
Exchanges

Type of Security/
Scrip Code

BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street,
Fort, Mumbai – 400 001.

Non-Convertible
Debentures/
949342/Scrip ID:
955MML2063

INE101A08070

Non-Convertible
Debentures/
954977/Scrip ID:
757MML26

INE101A08088

Non-Convertible
Debentures/959445/
Scrip ID: 665MML23

INE101A08096*

Non-Convertible
Debentures/
959446/Scrip ID:
678MML23

INE101A08104*

Non-Convertible
Debentures/
959586/Scrip ID:
619MML25

INE101A08112#

USY541641194

* Subsequent to the year end, the NCDs having ISIN: INE101A08096 and
INE101A08104 were redeemed on 20th April, 2023 and 24th April, 2023
respectively upon Maturity.
 The Company has on 4th May, 2023 received Notices from all the Holders
for this series of NCDs exercising Put Option to redeem the NCDs as per
the terms and conditions of the issue. These NCDs would be redeemed
on 8th June, 2023 (being Put Option date) prior to Maturity along with
accrued Interest.

#

5.	List of all Credit Ratings obtained by the Company along with revisions for the FY 2022-23
	The credit ratings obtained by the Company along with revisions, if any, thereto during the Financial Year 2022-23, for all
the debt instruments, fixed deposit programme, any scheme or proposal of the Company involving mobilisation of funds, in
India or abroad are given below:
Instrument Details

Rating(s)
CARE

CRISIL

ICRA

India Ratings & Research

Non-Convertible Debentures

–

CRISIL AAA/Stable

[ICRA] AAA (Stable)

IND AAA/Stable

Bank Facilities – Long Term

CARE AAA; Stable

CRISIL AAA/Stable

[ICRA] AAA (Stable)

IND AAA/Stable

Bank Facilities – Short Term

CARE A1+

CRISIL A1+

[ICRA] A1+

IND A1+

Commercial Paper (CP)

–

CRISIL A1+

–

–

During the year under review, credit ratings obtained by the Company for the Commercial Paper (“CP”) have been fully
withdrawn by ICRA on account of nil outstanding (due to maturity).
The above ratings have been assigned/ affirmed/ re-affirmed by the Credit Rating Agencies for the financial year ended
31st March 2023.
6.

Corporate Identity Number: L65990MH1945PLC004558

7.

Registered Office Address
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – 400 001.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

8.

180

Stock Price Data:
Equity Shares
National Stock Exchange
of India Limited

BSE Limited

Month

GDRs

GDRs

Luxembourg Stock
Exchange

London Stock Exchange

High

Low

High

Low

High*

Low*

High

Low

Rs.

Rs.

Rs.

Rs.

US$

US$

US$

US$

April, 2022

942.90

808.45

945.00

807.70

10.80

12.30

12.10

10.70

May, 2022

1,043.15

854.45

1,043.00

853.70

11.10

12.30

13.00

11.05

June, 2022

1,121.00

972.90

1,121.45

972.65

12.50

13.50

13.80

12.45

July, 2022

1,192.55

1,064.75

1,195.00

1,064.00

13.60

14.80

14.75

13.35

August, 2022

1,314.80

1,186.30

1,315.00

1,184.25

15.40

16.20

16.35

15.35

September, 2022

1,365.90

1,212.00

1,338.00

1,211.25

15.10

16.60

16.50

15.00

October, 2022

1,358.90

1,196.30

1,358.50

1,196.50

14.90

16.30

16.30

14.80

November, 2022

1,366.30

1,201.65

1,366.55

1,202.00

14.80

16.50

16.70

14.90

December, 2022

1,317.50

1,206.05

1,316.95

1,208.00

14.80

15.90

15.95

14.70

January, 2023

1,384.95

1,231.00

1,385.50

1,231.00

16.90

14.90

16.95

15.05

February, 2023

1,396.00

1,248.65

1,397.00

1,248.40

16.90

15.20

16.80

15.35

March, 2023

1,305.50

1,124.00

1,305.55

1,123.40

15.80

13.70

15.75

13.75

* Indicative
9.

Stock Performance
The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the S&P BSE Sensitive Index is given in the chart below:

S&P BSE Sensex

1500

64000

1400

62000

M&M ON BSE

1300

60000

1200

58000

1100
56000

1000

54000

900

52000

800
700

50000
Apr 22

May 22

Jun 22

Jul 22

Aug 22

Sep 22

Oct 22

Nov 22

Dec 22

Closing Price on Last Trading day of the Month

Jan 23

Feb 23

Mar 23

S&P BSE SENSEX

M&M on BSE

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

181

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the Nifty 50 Index is given in the chart below:

M&M on NSE

NSE Nifty 50
19000

1500
1400

M&M ON NSE

1200

17000

1100
16000

1000
900

NSE Nifty 50

18000

1300

15000

800
14000

700
Apr 22

May 22

Jun 22

Jul 22

Aug 22

Sep 22

Oct 22

Nov 22

Dec 22

Jan 23

Feb 23

Mar 23

Closing Price on Last Trading day of the Month

10. Registrar and Transfer Agents
	KFin Technologies Limited
(Formerly known as KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Unit: Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. 31-32,
	Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi,
Telangana - 500032, India
Tel. No.
: +91 40 6716 2222
Email
: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website
: www.kfintech.com
Toll Free No. : 1800 3094 001
11. Share Transfer System
	Trading in Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company through recognized Stock Exchanges is permitted only in dematerialised
form.
	The Stakeholders Relationship Committee meets as and when required to, inter alia, consider the issue of duplicate share
certificates and attend to Shareholders’ grievances, etc.
	Pursuant to Regulation 40 of Listing Regulations, no requests for effecting transfer of securities have been processed
unless the securities are held in the dematerialised form with the depository with effect from 1st April, 2019. However,
this restriction shall not be applicable to request received for effecting transmission or transposition of physical shares.
Further, SEBI has mandated that securities shall be issued only in dematerialized mode while processing duplicate/unclaimed
suspense/ renewal / exchange / endorsement /sub-division/ consolidation/ transmission/transposition service requests
received from physical securities holders.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

182

	SEBI has also mandated furnishing of PAN, contact details, bank account details and nomination by holders of physical
securities. Further, SEBI has also directed RTAs to freeze folios wherein PAN, KYC details and Nomination are not available
on or after 1st October, 2023. The shareholders are requested to update their details with Company/RTA by submitting form
ISR 1 which is available on website of the Company viz. https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/reports.
	The Shareholders holding shares in physical form are requested to get their shares dematerialised at the earliest to avoid any
inconvenience in future while transferring the shares. Shareholders are accordingly requested to get in touch with any Depository
Participant having registration with SEBI to open a Demat account to seek guidance in the demat procedure.
	The Shareholders may also visit website of depositories viz. National Securities Depository Limited viz. https://nsdl.co.in/faqs/faq.php
or Central Depository Services (India) Limited viz. https://www.cdslindia.com/Investors/open-demat.html for further understanding
of the demat procedure.
12. Distribution of Shareholding as on 31st March, 2023
Number of Shares held

Number of Shareholders*

Number of Shares held

% of Shareholding

1-100

5,65,326

1,21,14,432

0.97

101-500

70,104

1,59,55,580

1.28

501-1,000

12,597

93,69,822

0.75

1,001-5,000

12,546

2,70,94,755

2.18

5,001-10,000

1,905

1,34,62,553

1.08

10,001-20,000

966

1,34,84,239

1.09

20,001-30,000

336

82,00,545

0.66

30,001-40,000

150

52,52,961

0.42

40,001-50,000

136

61,03,920

0.49

50,001-1,00,000

341

2,45,69,555

1.98

1,00,001 and above

778

1,10,79,20,469

89.10

6,65,185

1,24,35,28,831

100.00

Total
* Without consolidating the folios on the basis of PAN

13. Category-wise shareholding as of 31st March, 2023

10.34%

Insurance Companies

8.01%

Individual Resident shareholders

18.88%

Promoters and Promoter Group

3.57%

Others

14.68%

Mutual Funds

38.25%

Foreign Portfolio Investors
(including FIIs & FPC's)

2.52%
3.75%

GDR Holders

Employee Beneﬁt Trusts

183

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

14.	Shareholders holding more than 1% of the shares as
on 31st March, 2023
The details of Public shareholders holding more than 1%
(PAN-based) of the equity as on 31st March, 2023 are as
follows:
Name of the Shareholders

% of Shareholding

Life Insurance Corporation of India

No. of shares held

5.00%

6,21,30,470

SBI Nifty 50 ETF

3.74%

4,64,76,824

First Sentier Investors ICVC Stewart Investors Asia Pacific Leaders
Sustainability Fund

3.31%

4,11,26,829

JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA

2.52%

3,13,49,492

HDFC Trustee Company Limited HDFC Flexi Cap Fund

2.08%

2,58,17,265

Government of Singapore

1.79%

2,23,14,993

ICICI Prudential Balanced
Advantage Fund

1.78%

2,21,95,622

Government Pension Fund Global

1.58%

1,96,58,298

Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
A/C Axis Mutual Fund

1.35%

1,67,53,408

NPS Trust A/C - HDFC Pension
Management Company Limited

1.29%

1,60,82,069

ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
Company Limited

1.28%

1,58,90,466

Kuwait Investment Authority Fund 601

1.23%

1,52,71,056

UTI - Nifty Exchange Traded Fund

1.11%

1,37,87,807

Vanguard Emerging Markets
Stock Index Fund, A SERI

1.03%

1,28,65,010

15. Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity
	99.67% of the paid-up Ordinary (Equity) Share Capital
of your Company is held in a dematerialised form with
National Securities Depository Limited and Central
Depository Services (India) Limited as on 31st March,
2023. The market lot of the Share of your Company is
one Share, as the trading in the Equity Share of your
Company is permitted only in dematerialised form. The
Non-Promoters’ holding as on 31st March, 2023 is around
81.12% and the stock is highly liquid.

2021

99.56%

99.59%

0.44%

0.41%

Dematerialized

2022

Physical

99.67%
2023

0.33%

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

16.	Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible
Instruments, Conversion date and likely impact on
Equity
	3,13,49,492 GDRs constituting 2.52% of the paidup Equity Share Capital were outstanding as on
31st March, 2023. Since the underlying Ordinary
(Equity) Shares represented by GDRs have been
allotted in full, the outstanding GDRs have no
impact on the Equity of the Company. There are no
other convertible instruments outstanding as on
31st March, 2023.
17.	
Commodity price risk or Foreign Exchange Risk &
hedging activities
	The Commodity prices in the Financial Year 2022-23 were
volatile. In the first quarter steel prices rose sharply due
to supply concerns caused by Russia-Ukraine conflict.
However, from June 2022 onwards, prices softened on
account of easing supply concerns and weak economic
outlook due to interest rate increases by major Central
Banks. Additionally, there was pressure on Indian steel
prices due to levy of export duties on key raw materials
and products. Subsequently, from December, 2022,
onwards, prices firmed up due to expectations of demand
growth driven by withdrawal of zero-Covid policy by
Chinese Government and removal of export duties by
Indian Government. Your Company stayed focused on
cost reduction through measures like VA/VE, negotiation
with suppliers, long term price contracting, etc.
	Your Company continues to watch the market situation
closely and continues to focus on mitigating commodity
price volatility through “Commodity Risk Management”.
Hedging of currencies and commodities are being
governed in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Risk
Management Policy and Commodity Risk Management
Policy, approved by the Board of Directors of your
Company.
	The details of Foreign Exchange hedging activities
undertaken by the Company are disclosed in Note No. 38
to the Annual Accounts of the Annual Report.
	Disclosures regarding commodity price risk and hedging
activities, the details of exposure of the Company to
material commodities and risks faced by it throughout
the year as mandated by Regulation 34(3) read with
clause 9(n) of Part C of Schedule V of the Listing
Regulations and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/
CIR/P/2018/0000000141 dated 15th November, 2018,
are as follows:
(a)	Total exposure of the listed entity to commodities in
INR: Rs. 12,959 crores

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

184

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

(b)	Exposure of the listed entity to various commodities:

Commodity Name

Exposure towards
the particular
commodity
(Rs crores)*

F23 Exposure in
Quantity terms
towards the particular
commodity (tons)#

% of such exposure hedged through commodity
derivatives
Domestic market
OTC

Exchange

International market
(LME)
OTC

Total

Exchange

Flat Steel (Sheet Metal)

6,139

8,80,502

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

Casting

3,298

6,05,259

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

Alloy Steel (Forging)

3,522

4,50,262

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

Nil

*
#

As per average prices of FY23
As per Actual F23 Volumes

(c)	Commodity risks faced by the listed entity during
the year and how they have been managed:
		The commodity risks on above commodities are
mitigated through close monitoring of commodity
movements and mitigation measures like value
engineering yielding significant cost reduction.
18. Plant Locations
	Your Company’s manufacturing facilities are located at
Kandivali, Nashik, Igatpuri, Nagpur, Chakan, Zaheerabad,
Jaipur, Rudrapur, Haridwar, Mohali, Pithampur and
Bengaluru.
19. Address for correspondence
	Shareholders may correspond with the Registrar and
Transfer Agents at:
KFin Technologies Limited
	(Formerly known as KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Unit: Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. 31-32,
Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi,
Telangana - 500032, India.
Tel. No.
Email
Website
Toll Free No.

: +91 40 6716 2222
: einward.ris@kfintech.com
: www.kfintech.com
: 1800 3094 001

New Delhi:
KFin Technologies Limited,
305 New Delhi House,
27 Barakhamba Road,
New Delhi - 110001.

Bengaluru:
KFin Technologies Limited,
No. 35, Puttanna Road,
Basavanagudi,
Bengaluru - 560004.

Kolkata:
KFin Technologies Limited,
2/1 Russel Street, 4th Floor,
Kankaria Centre,
Kolkata - 700016.

Chennai:
KFin Technologies Limited,
9th Floor, Capital Towers,
180, Kodambakkam High Road,
Nungambakkam,
Chennai - 600034.

	Your Company has also designated investors@mahindra.com
as an exclusive email ID for Investors for the purpose of
registering complaints and the same has been displayed
on the Company’s website. KFin Technologies Limited
also acts as Registrar and Transfer Agents for the Listed
Non-Convertible Debentures of the Company.
	Security holders would have to correspond with the
respective Depository Participants for Securities held in
demateralised form for transfer/transmission of Shares,
change of Address, change in Bank details, etc.
	For all investor related matters, the Company Secretary &
Compliance Officer can also be contacted at:

	for all matters relating to transmission/ dematerialisation of
shares, payment of dividend and any other query relating to
Equity Shares of your Company.

Mahindra Towers,
2nd Floor, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
Worli, Mumbai - 400 018.
Tel. No. : +91 22 2490 5812 / 2491 7029
Email: investors@mahindra.com
	Your Company can also be visited at its website:
https://www.mahindra.com.

	
Other Service Centers of KFin Technologies Limited
for investors:

20.	
Name and Address
Debenture Trustee

Mumbai:
KFin Technologies Limited,
6/8, Ground Floor,
Crossely House, Near BSE
(Bombay Stock Exchange),
Next to Union Bank, Fort,
Mumbai - 400001.

Pune:
KFin Technologies Limited,
Office # 207-210, second
floor, Kamla Arcade,
JM Road, Opposite
Balgandharva, Shivaji Nagar,
Pune - 411005.

for

correspondence

Axis Trustee Services Limited
The Ruby, 2nd Floor,
SW, 29 Senapati Bapat Marg,
Dadar West,
Mumbai - 400 028.
Tel. No. : +91 22 6230 0451
E-mail
:	debenturetrustee@axistrustee.in
complaints@axistrustee.in

with

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

21.	
Disclosures with respect to Demat
Account/Unclaimed Suspense Account:

Suspense

24.	
Unclaimed Dividend and shares transferred to
Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”)

	In terms of Regulation 39 of the Listing Regulations,
the Company reports the following details in respect of
equity shares lying in the suspense account:

In accordance with the provisions of sections 124 and
125 of the Act and Investor Education and Protection
Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules,
2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividends which remain unpaid or
unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date
of transfer to the Unpaid Dividend Account shall be
transferred by the Company to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”).

185

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

Number of
Shareholders

Number
of Equity
Shares

Aggregate Number of Shareholders and the
outstanding shares in the Suspense Account
lying as on 1st April, 2022

2,457

5,59,986

Less: Number of Shareholders whose
shares were transferred from suspense
account during the year

33

27,276

Aggregate number of Shareholders and
the outstanding shares in the suspense
account lying as on 31st March, 2023

2,424

5,32,710

Particulars

The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account
shall remain frozen till the rightful owners claim the
shares.

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Particulars

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

	The IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer all shares
in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed
for seven consecutive years or more in the name of IEPF.
The Members whose dividend/ shares are transferred to
the IEPF Authority can claim their shares/dividend from the
IEPF Authority following the procedure prescribed in the
IEPF Rules.
	In accordance with the said IEPF Rules and its
amendments, the Company had sent notices to all the
Shareholders whose shares were due for transfer to the
IEPF Authority and simultaneously published newspaper
advertisement.
 e details of Dividend remitted to IEPF during the
Th
year:

22.	
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Management Discussion and Analysis Report forms part
of this Annual Report.
23. Details of non-compliance, etc.
Your Company has complied with all the requirements
of regulatory authorities. During the last three years,
there were no instances of non-compliance by the
Company and no penalty or strictures were imposed on
the Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any
statutory authority, on any matter related to the capital
markets. The Company has also complied with the
requirements of Corporate Governance Report of Paras
(2) to (10) mentioned in Part ‘C’ of Schedule V of the
Listing Regulations and disclosed necessary information
as specified in Regulation 17 to 27 and Regulation
46(2) (b) to (i) and (t) of the Listing Regulations in the
respective places in this Report.

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

*

Financial Year Dividend
declared on

Amount
transferred to
IEPF
(in Rs.)

Date of transfer to
IEPF

2014-15

7th August, 2015

2,20,46,088.00

26th September, 2022

2021-22*

5th August, 2022

2,41,16,981.20

8th August, 2022

Dividend on shares which are transferred to IEPF.

25. Shares transferred/ credited to IEPF
	During the year 2022-23, the Company transferred
1,17,855 Ordinary (Equity) Shares to IEPF Authority
corresponding to unclaimed dividend for the year 201415. The IEPF Authority holds 25,67,983 Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company as on 31st March, 2023.
	Pursuant to IEPF Rules, given below are the details of
Ordinary (Equity) Shares transferred to and released from
IEPF Authority:
Number of shares transferred
to / released from IEPF

Transferred to IEPF during the year 2017-18

11,00,234

Bonus shares credited to IEPF on 26-12-2017

11,00,234

Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, 2018

22,00,468

Transferred to IEPF during the year 2018-19
Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, 2019

61,352
22,61,820

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Particulars

186

Number of shares transferred
to / released from IEPF

Transferred to IEPF during the year 2019-20

62,079

Released from IEPF during the year 2019-20

31,012

Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, 2020

22,92,887

Transferred to IEPF on 8th April, 2020

30

Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 8th April, 2020

22,92,917

Transferred to IEPF during the year 2020-21

60,436

Released from IEPF during the year 2020-21

13,412

Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, 2021

23,39,941

Transferred to IEPF during the year 2021-22

1,20,649

Released from IEPF during the year 2021-22

2,724

Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, 2022

24,57,866

Transferred to IEPF during the year 2022-23

1,17,855

Released from IEPF during the year 2022-23

7,738

Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, 2023

25,67,983

	The voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen until the rightful owner claims the shares.
	The Company has appointed a Nodal Officer under the provisions of IEPF Rules, the details of which are available on the
website of the Company https://www.mahindra.com/contact-us.
	Further, the Company has also appointed Deputy Nodal Officers to assist the Nodal Officer to, inter alia, verify the claim(s)
and co-ordinate with the IEPF Authority.
	The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the Company as on 31st March, 2022
on the Company’s website at the web link: https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/regulatory-filings and on the website
of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs at https://www.iepf.gov.in/content/iepf/global/master/Home/Home.html.
	The following table provides dates on which unclaimed dividend and their corresponding shares would become liable to be
transferred to the IEPF:
Date of declaration of dividend

Due date for transfer to IEPF

Amount (Rs.)
(As on 31st March, 2023)

2015-16

10th August, 2016

9th September, 2023

3,11,17,860.00

2016-17

4th August, 2017

3rd September, 2024

2,99,54,535.00

2017-18

7th August, 2018

6th September, 2025

2,59,29,435.00

2018-19

7th August, 2019

6th September, 2026

3,08,41,994.50

2019-20

7th August, 2020

7th September, 2027

80,70,899.95

2020-21

6 August, 2021

7 September, 2028

2,07,87,190.25

2021-22

5th August, 2022

6th September, 2029

2,46,41,439.16

Year

th

th

187

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES
1. Compliance with Mandatory requirements
	Your Company has complied with all the mandatory
requirements of the Listing Regulations relating to
Corporate Governance.
2.

Compliance with Non-mandatory requirements:
(a) Separate posts of Chairman and CEO
		Your Company has separate posts of Chairman and CEO.
Whilst Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman, Dr. Anish
Shah is the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.
(b) Office for Non-Executive Chairman
		Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman of the Company is
entitled to maintain a full- fledged office including staff,
appropriate security, etc., the expense of which is borne
by the Company.
(c) Unmodified Audit Opinion
		During the year under review, there is no audit
qualification in your Company’s standalone financial
statements. Your Company continues to adopt best
practices to ensure regime of financial statements
with unmodified audit qualifications.
3.	Details of utilisation of funds of Preferential Allotment/
QIP
	The Company has not raised funds through Preferential
Allotment/QIP during the year under review.
4.	Total fees for all services paid to the Statutory Auditors
by the Company and its Subsidiaries for the Financial
Year 2022-23
	Total fees paid by the Company and its Subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis, to the Statutory Auditor viz. B S R &
Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, Firm Registration No.
101248W/W-100022 and all entities in the network firm/
network entity of which the Statutory Auditors is a part, are
as follows:
(Rs. in Crores)

Particulars

Amount

Audit Fees (Including Limited Review Fees)

10.32

Other Services

1.02

Reimbursement of expenses

0.36

Total

11.70

5.	
Disclosure in relation to recommendation made by
any Committee which was not accepted by the Board:
	During the year under review, there were no such
recommendations made by any Committee of the Board
that were mandatorily required and not accepted by the
Board.
6.	Certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
regarding Non-Debarment and Non-Disqualification
of Directors
	A certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
certifying that none of the Directors on the Board of the

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Company as on 31st March, 2023 have been debarred
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing
as Director of companies by the Board/ Ministry of
Corporate Affairs or any such Statutory Authority, is
annexed at the end of this Report.
7.	
Disclosure in relation to the Sexual Harassment
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, 2013 for the Financial
Year 2022-23 is as under:
	(a)	Number of complaints filed during
the financial year under review
:9
(b)	Number of complaints disposed of
during the financial year under review

:9

(c)	Number of complaints pending as
on end of the financial year

:0

8.	Particulars of loans/advances/investments pursuant
to Para A of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations:
	The particulars of loans/advances/investments required
to be disclosed pursuant to Para A of Schedule V of
the Listing Regulations are furnished separately in the
Board’s Report and forms part of this Annual Report.
9.	
Disclosure of Loans and advances in the nature
of loans to firms/companies in which directors are
interested by name and amount:
	The Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/
companies in which directors are interested are disclosed
separately in the Board’s Report and forms part of this
Annual Report.
10. Directors and Officers Liability Insurance:
	
As per the provisions of the Act and in compliance
with Regulation 25(10) of the Listing Regulations, the
Company has taken a Directors and Officers Liability
Insurance (D&O) on behalf of all Directors including
Independent Directors and Officers of the Company
for indemnifying any of them against any personal
liability coming onto them whilst discharging fiduciary
responsibilites in relation to the Company.
11.	
Shareholding of Key Managerial Personnel of the
Company as on 31st March, 2023:
The Shareholding of Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”)
of your Company as on 31st March, 2023 is as follows:
Name of KMP
(alongwith their Designation)

No. of Ordinary (Equity)
% of
Shares held as on
Shareholding
st
31 March, 2023

Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer

1,88,882

0.0152%

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive
Director and CEO (Auto and Farm
Sector)

62,874

0.0051%

Mr. Manoj Bhat, Group Chief
Financial Officer

Nil

–

Mr. Narayan Shankar, Company
Secretary

40,373

0.0032%

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

188

X. GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
1.

Details of General Meetings and Special Resolutions passed
AGM held during the past 3 years and the Special Resolutions passed therein:

Year

Date

Time

Special Resolutions passed

2020

7th August, 2020

3:00 p.m.

1.

Re-designation of Dr. Pawan Goenka (DIN: 00254502), as “Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer” with effect from 1st April, 2020, revision in
the remuneration payable to him with effect from 1st August, 2020 upto
11th November, 2020 and re-appointment as “Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer” of the Company with effect from 12th November, 2020
to 1st April, 2021.

2.

Appointment of Dr. Anish Shah (DIN: 02719429), as Whole-time Director
designated as “Deputy Managing Director and Group Chief Financial Officer”
from 1st April, 2020 to 1st April, 2021 and as the Managing Director of
the Company designated as “Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer”
with effect from 2nd April, 2021 to 31st March, 2025.

3.

Appointment of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (DIN: 00046823), as Whole-time
Director designated as “Executive Director (Automotive and Farm
Sectors)” for a period of 5 years with effect from 1st April, 2020 to
31st March, 2025.

1.

Re-appointment of Mr. T. N. Manoharan (DIN: 01186248) as an Independent
Director of the Company, not liable to retire by rotation, to hold office for a
second term of 5 (five) consecutive years commencing from 11th November,
2021 to 10th November, 2026.

2.

Payment of remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: 00004695) as a
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for a period of 5 (five) years with
effect from 12th November, 2021.

1.

Payment of remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: 00004695) as
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for the Financial Year 2022-23.

2021

2022

6th August, 2021

5th August, 2022

3:00 p.m.

3:00 p.m.

Web link for webcast/
transcripts

https://www.mahindra.com/
investor-relations/reports

Note:
	In compliance with the provisions of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) General Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 2020 read together
with MCA General Circular Nos. 14 & 17/2020 dated 8th April, 2020 and 13th April, 2020, respectively, MCA General Circular No. 02/2021 dated
13th January, 2021 and MCA General Circular No. 02/2022 dated 5th May, 2022 and SEBI’s Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/ CIR/P/2020/79 dated
12th May, 2020 read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/ CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 15th January, 2021, the Company conducted the AGM(s) in
the year 2020, 2021 and 2022 through Video Conferencing /Other Audio Visual Means (“VC”/“OAVM”).
	Further, in accordance with the Secretarial Standard-2 on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) read with
Clarification/Guidance on applicability of Secretarial Standards - 1 and 2 dated 15th April, 2020 issued by the ICSI, the proceedings of the AGMs of the
Company held in the year 2020, 2021 and 2022 were deemed to have been conducted at the Registered Office of the Company being the deemed venue
of the AGM.
No Extraordinary General Meeting was held during the past 3 years.
No Special Resolution(s) requiring a Postal Ballot is being proposed at the ensuing AGM of the Company.
No Postal Ballot was conducted during the Financial Year 2022-23.

2.	National Company Law Tribunal Convened Meeting held during the year 2022-23 and the Resolution(s) passed therein
	As per the directions of Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench (“NCLT”) by its Order dated 10th June,
2022, your Company convened a Meeting of Equity Shareholders on 19th August, 2022 through VC/OAVM facility for the
purpose of considering, and if thought fit, approving, with or without modification(s), the Scheme of Merger by Absorption
of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (“MEML” or “Transferor Company”) with Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“M&M” or
“Transferee Company” or “the Company”) and their respective shareholders (“Scheme”). The said Order also mentioned
the appointment of Mr. Sachin Bhagwat, Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. ACS 10189) or in his absence Mr.
Prashant Vaishampayan (Membership No. FCS 4251) as a Scrutiniser for the purpose of scrutinising the process for voting
and remote e-voting for the Meeting, including for any adjournment(s) thereof.

189

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

	Details of Combined Voting Results (i.e. result of remote e-voting together with that of the e-voting conducted at the
Meeting) of the above Resolution are as under:
Type of voting

Votes in favour of the resolution
Votes against the resolution
Total

Number of
Members voted

Percentage of
Members voted

Number of votes
cast

Percentage of
total number of
votes cast

2,437

98.9042

101,10,22,097

99.9988

27

1.0958

12,069

0.0012

2,463*

100.00

101,10,34,166

100.00

Result

Passed with the
requisite majority

*	1 Member has voted partially in favour and partially against the Resolution and hence has been reckoned only once in the Total.

Notice of the Meeting:
•	The Notice of the Meeting along with the statement setting out material facts under section 230(3) read with Section
102 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, was sent on 16th July, 2022 to the Equity Shareholders
in respect of the Resolution proposed at the Meeting.
•	The Equity Shareholders of the Company holding shares as on the cut-off date of 12th August, 2022 were entitled to vote
on the resolution as contained in the Notice of the Meeting.
•	In pursuance of the directions issued by the NCLT pursuant to its Order, the Company had duly released an advertisement
intimating the calling of the NCLT convened meeting of the Equity Shareholders and dispatch of Notice, in English newspaper
viz. “Business Standard”, having nation - wide circulation and in Marathi Newspaper viz. “Navshakti”, having circulation in
Maharashtra on 19th July, 2022.
Procedure adopted for Remote E-voting:
•	In terms of the Order and in compliance with the provisions of section 230(4) read with section 108 of the Act read with
Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, as amended and in accordance with Regulation
44 of Listing Regulations read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2020/242 dated 9th December, 2020 and
Secretarial Standard – 2 on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Members were
provided with the facility to cast their vote electronically, through the e-voting services provided by KFin on Resolution set
forth in the Notice, through remote e-voting.
•	The remote e-voting period commenced on Monday, 15th August, 2022 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ended on Thursday, 18th August,
2022 (5:00 p.m. IST).
•	The procedure for e-voting during the Meeting was same as that for remote e-voting since the Meeting was held through
VC/OAVM. The e-voting window was activated upon instructions of the Chairman of the Meeting during the Meeting. E-voting
during the Meeting was integrated with the VC/OAVM platform and the Members/ Shareholders, who were present in the
Meeting through VC/OAVM facility and had not cast their vote on the Resolution through remote e-voting and were
otherwise not barred from doing so, were eligible to vote through e-voting system in the Meeting.
Scrutiniser Report
•	The Scrutiniser submitted his combined report on 19th August, 2022. The resolution was passed on Friday, 19th August,
2022.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

190

DECLARATION UNDER THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS
AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
To
The Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
I, Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited declare that all the Members of the Board of
Directors and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for the year ended 31st March, 2023.
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023		

Anish Shah
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer

CERTIFICATE
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS UNDER SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) REGULATIONS, 2015
TO THE MEMBERS OF MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED
1.	This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 1 September 2022.
2.	We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“the Company”), for the year
ended 31 March 2023, as stipulated in regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D and E of
Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 as amended
from time to time (“Listing Regulations”) pursuant to the Listing Agreement of the Company with Stock Exchanges.
Management’s Responsibility
3.	The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under the listing regulations is the responsibility of the Company’s
Management including the preparation and maintenance of all the relevant records and documents. This responsibility includes the
design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of Corporate
Governance stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
Auditors’ Responsibility
4.	Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the
conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
5.	Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable assurance whether the Company
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Listing Regulations for the year ended 31 March 2023.
6.	We conducted our examination of the above corporate governance compliance by the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note
on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised 2016) and Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance both issued
by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the “ICAI”), in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate. The Guidance
Note requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
7.	We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) 1, Quality Control for Firms that
Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
8.	In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
9.	We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on use
10.	The certificate is addressed and provided to the Members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling the Company to comply with
the requirement of the Listing Regulations and should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not
accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into
whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022

Place: Mumbai
Date: 26 May 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No: 113156
ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJI9024

191

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors
CERTIFICATE
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and sub-clause (i) of clause (10) of Paragraph C of Schedule V to the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To,
The Members of
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – 400 001
I have examined the relevant registers, returns and records maintained by Mahindra and Mahindra Limited (“the Company”) having
CIN L65990MH1945PLC004558 and registered office at Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai – 400 001, forms and disclosures
received from the Directors of the Company, produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance
with Regulation 34(3) read with sub-clause (i) of clause (10) of Paragraph C of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors’ Identification Number (DIN) status at
the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company and its Officers, I certify that none
of the Directors on the Board of the Company for the Financial year ended on March 31, 2023 has been debarred or disqualified from being
appointed or continuing as Director of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such
statutory Authority.
Ensuring eligibility for appointment / continuity of every director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My
responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of
the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.

Place: Pune
Date: 26 May 2023

CS SACHIN BHAGWAT
Membership No.: A 10189
C. P. No.: 6029
UDIN: A010189E000383751
PR Certificate No.: 654/2020

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

192

193

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

194

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.

DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY

1

Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity

L65990MH1945PLC004558

2

Name of the Listed Entity

Mahindra and Mahindra Limited

3

Year of incorporation

1945

4

Registered office address

Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai - 400001

5

Corporate address

Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg, Worli,
Mumbai - 400018

6

E-mail

investors@mahindra.com

7

Telephone

+9122 6897 5500

8

Website

www.mahindra.com

9

Financial Year for which reporting is being done

01-04-2022 to 31-03-2023

10 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed

Your Company’s Ordinary (Equity) Shares are listed on
BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India
Limited (“NSE”).
The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) of the Company
are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and are also
admitted for trading on International Order Book (IOB) of
the London Stock Exchange.
The Company’s privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures
(NCDs) are listed on the Debt Segment of BSE.

11 Paid-up Capital

Rs. 621.76 Cr.

12 Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the
BRSR report
Name Of Contact Person

Rajeshwar Tripathi
Chief Human Resources Officer - Auto and Farm Sector

Contact Number Of Contact Person

+9122 2884 9702

Email Of Contact Person

tripathi.rajeshwar@mahindra.com

13 Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report The disclosures under this report are made on Standalone
made on a standalone basis (i.e., only for the entity) or on basis.
a consolidated basis (i.e., for the entity and all the entities
which form a part of its consolidated financial statements,
taken, together).

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

195

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

II. PRODUCTS/SERVICES
14. Details of business (accounting for 90% of the Turnover)
S. Description of Main Activity
No.

Description of business activity

% of
Turnover of
the entity

1

Motor vehicles, trailers, semi trailers and other Transport
Vehicles

91.2

Manufacturing

15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. Product/Service
No.

NIC Code

% of total
Turnover
contributed

1

Automotive

29101, 29102, 29103, 29104, 29109, 28243

64.75

2

Farm Equipment

28211, 28212

26.41

III. OPERATIONS
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location

Number of plants

Number of offices

Total

National

38

111

149

International

–

3

3

17. Markets served by the entity:
a.

Number of locations

Location

Number

National (No. of States)

28 States
and 6 Union
Territories

International (No. of Countries)

3

b.

What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?

		5.94%
c.

A brief on types of customers

		The Company serves various customers including urban population, rural population, government and corporates, SMEs,
agricultural and non-agricultural business and tours and travels amongst others.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

196

IV. EMPLOYEES
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled):
S.
Particulars
No

Total (A)

Male

Female

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C)

% (C/A)

EMPLOYEES
1. Permanent (D)

12,246

11,469

93.66

777

6.34

2. Other than Permanent (E)

1,193

966

80.97

227

19.03

3. Total employees (D + E)

13,439

12,435

92.53

1,004

7.47

4. Permanent (F)

11,249

11,193

99.50

56

0.50

5. Other than Permanent (G)

37,186

35,167

94.57

2,019

5.43

6. Total workers (F + G)

48,435

46,360

95.72

2,075

4.28

WORKERS

		

•

At the entry level (from campuses), during the year, the Company has achieved 21% gender diversity.

		

•

In the workers category, the numbers have gone up by three times over last year.

b.

Differently abled Employees and workers:

S.
Particulars
No

Total (A)

Male

Female

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C)

% (C/A)

DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1. Permanent (D)

6

6

100.00

–

0.00

2. Other than Permanent (E)

–

–

–

–

–

3. Total differently abled employees (D + E)

6

6

100.00

–

0.00

4. Permanent (F)

11

11

100.00

–

0.00

5. Other than Permanent (G)

–

–

–

–

–

6. Total differently abled workers (F + G)

11

11

100.00

–

0.00

DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS

19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women
Total (A)

No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)

% (B/A)

Board of Directors

12

3

25.00

Key Management Personnel

4*

–

0.00

* Includes Managing Director & CEO and Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) who are also covered in the number of directors on the Board.

20. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
(Disclose trends for the past 3 years)
FY 2022-23
(Turnover rate in current FY)

FY 2021-22
(Turnover rate in previous FY)

FY 2020-21 (Turnover rate in the
year prior to the previous FY)

Male

Female

Total

Male

Female

Total

Male

Female

Total

Permanent Employees

16.4%

24.9%

17.0%

15.8%

34.2%

16.9%

6.8%

11.5%

7.2%

Permanent Workers

5.0%

8.8%

5.0%

4.5%

9.4%

4.6%

4.1%

6.9%

4.1%

197

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

V. HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES)
21. (a) Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures
		The details of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures of the Company are provided in Form AOC‑1 and form part of
this Annual Report.
		

S.
No.

For the year 2022-23, following subsidiaries have participated in Business Responsibility initiatives of the Company:

Name of the holding/subsidiary/associate companies/
joint ventures (A)

Indicate whether
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint
Venture

% of
shares held
by listed
entity*

Does the entity indicated
at column A, participate in
the Business Responsibility
initiatives of the listed entity?
(Yes/No)

1

Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited

Subsidiary

61.00

Yes

2

Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited

Subsidiary

98.86

Yes

3

Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra
Intertrade Limited, Name changed w.e.f. 05.01.2023)

Subsidiary

100.00

Yes

4

Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited

Subsidiary

67.00

Yes

5

Mahindra and Mahindra Financial Services Limited

Subsidiary

52.16

Yes

6

Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited

Subsidiary

80.00

Yes

7

Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited

Subsidiary

98.43

Yes

8

Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited

Subsidiary

51.28

Yes

9

Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited

Subsidiary

74.00

Yes

10

Mahindra World City Developers Limited

Subsidiary

89.00

Yes

11

Mahindra Logistics Limited

Subsidiary

58.09

Yes

12

Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited

Subsidiary

100.00

Yes

13

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

Subsidiary

70.00

Yes

14

Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited

Subsidiary

54.31

Yes

* Percentage holding in subsidiaries represents aggregate percentage of shares/voting power held by the Company and/or its subsidiaries.

VI. CSR DETAILS
22. CSR Details
Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013

Yes

Turnover (in Rs.)

84,960.26 Cr.

Net worth (in Rs.)

42,858.80 Cr.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

198

VII. TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCES
23.	
Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible
Business Conduct:
FY 2022-23
Stakeholder
group from
whom complaint
is received

Grievance
Redressal
Mechanism in
Place (Yes/No)

if Yes, then provide web-link for
grievance redress policy

Number of
complaints
filed during
the year

Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
close of the
year

Communities

No

-

–

Investors
(other than
shareholders)

Yes

Name of the policy:

FY 2021-22

Remarks

Number of
complaints
filed during
the year

Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
close of the
year

Remarks

–

NA

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

34

–

NA

30

–

NA

147

15

Complaints
received in
Q3 and Q4
of
FY 2022-23
are under
investigation

67

1

NA

65,330

1,863

NA

51,151

1,061

NA

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Investors Grievance Redressal
Policy
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments

Shareholders

Yes

Name of the policy:
Investors Grievance Redressal
Policy
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments

Employees
and workers

Yes

Name of the policy:
Code of Conduct for Employees
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments

Customers

Yes

There is no official policy, however,
in all the Company's touch points
like – Owner’s Manual , Website,
With You Hamesha (WYH) App
& Repair Orders, it is mentioned
to connect on the registered
customer care email ID or toll
free number if any feedback.

Value Chain
Partners

Yes

Name of the policy:
Suppliers Code of Conduct
Web-link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments

Others

NA

–

199

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	Material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications:

S. No.

1

Material issue
identified

Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O)

Water Security R

Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity

In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate

Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications)

Fresh water is an important input The Company strives to mitigate the water Negative
Implication:
for both manufacturing processes risk by adopting following four methods:
and domestic purposes of the 1.	
The Company utilises various global Stoppage of
Company. Processes such as
tools to identify the water risk across water impacts
paint booths are water intensive
its operation sites and value chain.
manufacturing
processes in automotive and farm
Based upon the amount of risk in
processes and
industry. It is important to use
respective river basins, the mitigation
quality water to maintain the paint
utility set ups.
action is planned and executed.
quality. Water scarcity is India’s
Optimum usage of water in all
silent crisis and unpredictable 2. 	
operations through various water
rainfall across India makes the
efficiency measures adopted such
manufacturing
plants
more
as low volume water taps, arresting
vulnerable for water shortages.
leakages in pipelines, amongst others.
Tractor sales are also largely
dependent upon the monsoon in 3.	
R ainwater harvesting: By increasing
India. Hence insulating against
rainwater storage capacity.
water risk is one of the identified
4.	
Recycling: By installing ETP/STP and
business risks and priorities.
RO plants, we strive to increase our
recycling capacity.
5.

2

Carbon
Emissions

R

 round water recharge: By installing
G
specially designed deep aquifer pits
for improving ground water table. To
ensure the availability of water for
the community, the Company is also
working on watershed management
projects.

The business risk of climate The Company has laid down a comprehensive Negative
change can affect the Company in and detailed plan to manage its Greenhouse Implications:
multiple ways including regulatory Gas (GHG) emissions. Some of the programs
Impacts the
impact on vehicle sales, physical or commitments are mentioned below:
environment
changes which could affect the 1.	
Committed for carbon Pricing-invest
such as physical
operating environment of the
$10 per ton of carbon emission.
damage from
products, among others. As the
Committed for EP 100 i.e., double floods or brushfire
Company operates in an evolving 2.	
Energy productivity by 2030 in or forced closures.
carbon
emissions
regulatory
association with The Climate Group.
environment, it is essential that
Flow-on effects
the Company plans and works on 3.	
Committed to reduce carbon intensity of climate change
ways to mitigate the risk.
by 47% by FY 2033-34 (with base or extreme
year of 2018-19) - signatory to the events such as
Science based Targets.
supply chain being
4.	
Committed to become carbon neutral disrupted by
by 2040. The Company is also focusing extreme weather.
on increasing the market share of
the electric vehicle portfolio in India,
emerging, and developed markets.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

S. No.

Material issue
identified

Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O)

O

3

4

Waste to
Wealth

Product
Stewardship

O

R

Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity

In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate

200

Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications)

The Company is committed to NA
sustainable business practices
by contributing to environment
protection and considers carbon
emission reduction as one of
the strong pillars of preserving
natural resources. Carbon Emission
reduction helps in reducing the
power and fuel cost (which is around
15% of total vehicle conversion
cost) and hence improves the
bottom-line under the Company’s
‘Mission Sustainability’.

Positive
Implications:

The Company is committed to NA
sustainable business practices
by contributing to environment
protection and considers waste
to wealth as one of the focus
areas
under
sustainability.
Production
of
automobiles
involves the generation of waste
materials both Hazardous and
Non-hazardous
waste.
The
major impact through this waste
is environment pollution and
resource depletion.

Positive
Implications:

Impacts resource
efficiencies and
cost savings. The
adoption of lowemission energy
sources results in
the development of
new products and
services, access to
new markets and
building resilience
along the supply
chain.

Reduction in
waste generation
or recycling of
waste leads to
economic gains
and supports in
reduction of Green
House Gas (GHG)
emissions.

In the current situation, customers To cater to the new product requirements, Negative
have many options to choose the Company is into various phases Implications:
from various brands. Competition of R&D/production/marketing of clean
It is
from peers, customer focus, new automotive products like hybrid vehicles,
imperative for
regulations,
market
demand, bio-fuel vehicles, electric passenger
manufacturers
etc. are some of the drivers vehicle, hydrogen combustion engine
to design
for constant evolution and new vehicle, etc. Further, a full-fledged Product
products so as
Improvement Roadmap is in place at the
product development.
to meet changing
Company. This roadmap focuses on the
consumer
reduction in specific fuel consumption,
behaviour and
weight reduction, switching to alternative
expectations.
fuels, enhancing product safety, etc. We are
Creating
fully geared up to leverage opportunities
products and
through our initiatives in Shared Mobility,
services that are
Electric Vehicles, innovative products and
not-sustainable/
extensive product portfolio.
not viable/
not accessible/
not affordable
will have an
impact on overall
brand image
and economic
performance .

201

S. No.

5

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

Material issue
identified

Health and
Safety

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O)

R

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate

Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications)

The Company is committed to zero- The Company is a people-first company and Negative
accidents at the workplace. However, strives to mitigate the plant’s risks arising from Implications:
certain risks as under have been health and safety issues.
The consequences
identified:
The Company incorporates high safety standards of poor health
a.	
Overall being old plant Space for safe working conditions to achieve an inter- and safety in
dependent safety culture.
constraint
the workplace
b.	
Depletion of skills due to To avoid unsafe incidents, the Company has have an impact
retirement and deployment of adopted key safety standards, safety tools and on the safety of
the employees.
new contract/trainee workmen practices, including:
Work-related
c.	
Less exposure to Latest 1. ISO 45001 certification for all sites
illness or injury
Technology and high dependency
2.	
Implementing Mahindra safety standards not only puts an
on Manual Activities
with global benchmarking in all employee out of
work for a while
d.	
manufacturing operations
Lack of contingencies of critical
and impacts their
equipments/old equipments
3.	
Work proactively towards eliminating
quality of life, it
health and safety concerns of the
may also damage
workforce
the business’s
4.	
Installing cutting edge and the latest productivity,
firefighting systems at the plants
finances and
5.	Improving and developing safety skills by reputation.
creating safety awareness, conducting
trainings and dexterity of machining,
assembly, safety in material handling

6.	
Instituting safety mechanisms based on
the recognized Kaizen and Poka-Yoke
concepts
7.	Promoting proactive measures to prevent
accidents and occupational hazards
such as SOTs, internal audits, safety
assessments and regular reviews
8.	Rewarding and recognizing commendable
achievements in the filed of Health and
Safety
The Company’s focus is not only on physical
health, but also on the mental health and
well-being of employees. The Company creates
awareness, provides information, assists
employees with counselling, provides them with
therapy and training, engages with them on a
regular basis on new realities and emotional
challenges they face daily under the belowlisted health and wellness pillars:
1.

Physical Health

2.

Food and Nutrition

3.

Psychological well-being

4.

Way 2 wellness

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

S. No.

Material issue
identified

Indicate whether
risk or opportunity
(R/O)

Rationale for identifying the risk
opportunity

In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate

202

Financial implications
of the risk or
opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications)

6

Sustainable
Supply Chain

R

The Company considers suppliers The Company has set stringent Code of Conduct Negative
as business partners and strives to for all supplier partners. Further, the Company Implications:
develop sustainable supply chain. For mitigates supply chain risk, the Company has
Improvement in
delivering right product/services at established Supplier Risk Management and
ESG practices
right time to customers, supply chain mitigation (SRMM) process for suppliers. SRMM
at the supplier's
plays a vital role and any disruption in includes Financial Risk, Safety Risk, Labour Risk.
end will improve
supply chain will impact the business The Company is conducting Health, Safety
supply chain
of the Company. Moreover, any breach Practices and working condition audit for identified
efficiency &
of ESG practices will result in severe suppliers through industry experts. Based on the
considerably
impact on supplier’s business and also improvement areas mentioned in report, supplier
reduce the risk
on the business of the Company and prepares and submits action plan.
of supply chain
its reputation.
By the end of FY23, the Company has also disruption along
initiated on-site ESG audit for suppliers through with reputation
internationally reputed agencies.
risk. This will
For enhancing capability of suppliers, the result in smooth
Company runs supplier development programs operations.
namely Supplier Business Capability Building
(SBCB) and Mahindra Supplier Evaluation
system (MSES) for identified suppliers. The
Company also conducts training programs on
sustainability topics like Environment, Social
and Governance practices for its suppliers.

7

CSR
Management

O

As a part of nation building, the NA
Company has implemented various
CSR projects primarily serving the
constituencies of girls and women and
supporting the environment through
a massive tree plantation drive. Key
projects are mentioned below:
Project Nanhi Kali is a pan-India girl
child empowerment programme which
helps under-privileged girls complete
their schooling. Through the project,
girls in government schools (from
Classes 1-10) are provided with daily
after school academic support, access
to an AI powered personalized learning
software via digital tablets, a sports
curriculum and a school supplies kit.
The Mahindra Pride Classrooms is
a pan-India women empowerment
initiative to impart skilling for
women enrolled in government/
government-aided vocational colleges
and institutions. Women are trained in
English speaking, life skills, interview
preparedness and digital literacy,
which are critical skills required to
boost their employability.
Project Hariyali aims to increase the
green cover, arrest the rising ecological
imbalance, protect the biodiversity and
in the process support the livelihood of
marginalized farmers.

Positive
Implications:
The Company
is required to
spend 2% of
the average net
proﬁt for the last
three ﬁnancial
years on CSR
Initiatives.
Through the CSR
initiatives, the
following are
achieved:
1. Empowerment
of underprivileged girls to
complete their
schooling
2. Increase in
employability of
women
3. Increase in
green cover
and support to
the livelihood
of marginalized
farmers

203

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place
towards adopting the NGRBC principles and core elements.
P1

Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable

P2

Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe

P3

Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains

P4

Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders

P5

Businesses should respect and promote human rights

P6

Businesses should respect and make efforts to restore and protect the environment

P7

Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent

P8

Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development

P9

Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

a.	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies
cover each principle and its core elements
of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

b.	
Has the policy been approved by the
Board? (Yes/No)

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Disclosure Questions
Policy and Management Processes
1

c.

Web-link of the Policies, if available

It has been the Company’s practice to upload all policies on the intranet site for
the information and implementation by the internal stakeholders.
Policies viz. Code of Conduct for Directors, Code of Conduct for Employees,
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, Policy on Prevention of Sexual
Harassment and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy are available on the
following web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents

2

Whether the entity has translated the policy
into procedures. (Yes/No)

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

3

Do the enlisted policies extend to your value
chain partners? (Yes/No)

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

Yes

Yes

No

Yes

No

4

Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/labels/standards (e.g., Forest
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest
Alliance, Trustee) standards (e.g., SA 8000,
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and
mapped to each principle.

5

1.

ISO 14001

2.

ISO 45001

3.

ISO 9001 (QMS)

4.

ISO 27001

Specific commitments, goals and targets set The Company is committed to becoming a Planet Positive business with a clear
action plan that includes becoming Carbon Neutral (Scope1 and 2) by 2040,
by the entity with defined timelines, if any.
doubling energy productivity by 2030, zero waste to landfill by 2030, sustaining
its water positivity index and increasing its share of renewable energy to 50%
by 2025. The Company is the largest electric 3-wheeler company in the country
with dominant Market Share and supporting a net-zero supply chain. Also, 71%
of waste generated by the Company is recycled and reused.
The Company has a formal policy on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities which
is available in the public domain, and the Company stands committed to the same.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

P1

Disclosure Questions
6

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

204

P9

Performance of the entity against the specific The Company has a clear 3-year roadmap on material ESG aspects and planet
commitments, goals and targets along-with positive commitments. The detailed performance against roadmap/Action plan
is provided in the Sustainability Report.
reasons in case the same are not met.

Governance, Leadership and Oversight
7

Statement by director responsible for the The Company’s environmental sustainability goal, in alignment with the Paris
business responsibility report, highlighting ESG Agreement and commitment to Science Based Targets (SBTi), is to become
related challenges, targets and achievements a carbon neutral company by 2040. A leader in the ESG space in India, the
Company is well-poised to take the lead globally. It joined the ‘First Movers
Coalition’ to work towards driving demand for zero-carbon technologies at the
World Economic Forum, along with global giants such as Amazon and Apple.
It is the only Indian corporate whose companies have been named in CDP’s
Leadership Band for corporate sustainability. The Company has become the
first Indian ‘Automobile and Components’ company to enter the World Index
of DJSI.
Its Risk Management framework works at various levels across the enterprise,
with a robust organisational structure, for managing and reporting risks. Its
FUTURise framework shapes our ambition to transform the Company into a
global innovation powerhouse driven by technology. This approach is rooted
in three guiding principles: Do more with less, Do it together, and Do it for all.

8

Details of the highest authority responsible for Dr. Anish Shah - Managing Director and CEO (DIN: 02719429) is the Director
implementation and oversight of the Business responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility
policy(ies).
Responsibility policy(ies).
Mr. Rajeshwar Tripathi - Chief Human Resources Officer (Auto and Farm Sectors)
is the BR Head

9

Does the entity have a specified Committee
of the Board/Director responsible for decision
making on sustainability related issues?
(Yes/No). If yes, provide details.

Yes. The Company has a CSR Committee of the Board which oversees the CSR
performance in the year. It consists of five members including independent
directors and Managing Director and CEO. Further, the Committee is chaired by
a Woman Independent Director. For composition of the CSR Committee, please
refer Page No. 171 of the Annual Report in the Corporate Governance Section.
The CSR Committee of the Board assesses the BRSR performance twice a year.
Other supporting councils or cells are Group Sustainability Council, Group CSR
Council, Central Safety Council and Corporate Governance Council, who meet
every 3 months for decision making related to sustainability issues.

10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review

Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director/
Committee of the Board/Any other Committee

Frequency (Annually/Half yearly/Quarterly/
Any other – please specify)

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

Performance against
above policies and follow
up action

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quarterly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly

Compliance with
statutory requirements
of relevance to
the principles, and,
rectification of any
non-compliances

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quar- Quarterly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly terly

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

205

11.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

Has the entity carried out independent
assessment/evaluation of the working of
its policies by an external agency? (Yes/
No). If yes, provide name of the agency

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

No

No

Yes,
Deloitte
Touche
Tohmatsu
India LLP

No

No

No

No

No

No

12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Question

P1

P2

P3

P4

P5

P6

P7

P8

P9

The entity does not consider the Principles material to its
business (Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical
resources available for the task (Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Any other reason (please specify)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1
BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY, AND IN A MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL,
TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.

Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:

Segment

Total number of training and
awareness programmes held

Topics/principles covered under
the training and its impact

% age of persons in respective category
covered by the awareness programmes

Board of Directors

3

Code of Conduct (COC), Anti-Bribery
and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) and
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at
Workplace (POSH)

100

Key Managerial
Personnel

3

Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption and POSH

100

Employees other
than BoD and KMPs

3

Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption and POSH

COC – 86
ABAC – 64
POSH – 88

Workers

3

Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption and POSH

100

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

206

 etails of fines/penalties/punishment/award/compounding fees/settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the
D
entity or by directors/KMPs) with regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, in the financial year:
Monetary
NGRBC Principle

Name of the regulatory/enforcement
agencies/judicial institutions

Nil

NA

Nil

NA

Amount (In INR)

Brief of the Case

Has an appeal been preferred?
(Yes/No)

NA

No

NA

No

NA

No

Penalty/Fine
–
Settlement
–
Compounding fee
Nil

NA

–
Non-Monetary

NGRBC Principle

Name of the regulatory/enforcement
agencies/judicial institutions

Brief of the Case

Has an appeal been preferred?
(Yes/No)

NA

No

NA

No

Imprisonment
Nil

NA
Punishment

Nil

NA

3. 	Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where monetary
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details

Name of the regulatory/enforcement agencies/judicial institutions

NA

NA

4. 	Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, description of ABAC to be provided and
if available, provide a web-link to the policy.
	Yes, the Company practices a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has a policy on Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption. This policy provides a framework for ensuring compliance with legislations governing bribery and corruption
globally. The web-link to the policy is https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
5. 	Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement
agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:
FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Directors

Nil

Nil

KMPs

Nil

Nil

Employees

Nil

Nil

Workers

Nil

Nil

6.

Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Number

Remarks

Number

Remarks

Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors

–

NA

–

NA

Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs

–

NA

–

NA

7.

 rovide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by
P
regulators/law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
NA

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

207

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

PRINCIPLE 2
BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 	Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2022-23
%

FY 2021-22
%

Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
Development of Born Electric Vehicles

R&D

23

16

– Zero Tailpipe emission and improving air quality
– Reducing reliance on Fossil fuel
Development of Trem 4, Trem V, CPCB4, Stage V Technologies
– To reduce air pollution

Capex

13

5

– Mitigate Global warming effects
Electric tractor
– Concept development of e-tractor and POC completion

2.

a.

Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No)

		Yes
b.

If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?

		The Company has been working to enhance the degree of sustainability associated with its sourcing practices under
“ONE SOURCING”. As part of the sourcing strategy, the Company has set up vendor parks near manufacturing plants,
source from tightly knit clusters, optimize logistics to reduce fuel consumption, emissions and carbon footprint. The
Company has reduced domestic wood used for packaging and supply of material by 88% from the base year of 2016.
3. 	Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	CERO, which is India's first and largest network of vehicle recycling company, is a brand under subsidiary Mahindra MSTC
Recycling Private Limited, established in collaboration with Government of India Enterprise (GOI). CERO strives to achieve
the goal of zero pollution, wastage, and metal scrap imports.
(a) Plastics (including packaging)
		Plastic which is being removed from end-of-life vehicle is recycled through agencies authorized by the Pollution Control
Board. Granules are prepared from the plastic waste and used as raw material for making new product. The Company
does not use any packaging material in its process.
(b) E-waste
		

E-waste is recycled through recyclers authorized by the Pollution Control Board as per E-waste management Rules, 2022.

(c) Hazardous waste
		All hazardous waste from the vehicle is removed before beginning the scrapping process. This includes collection of fluid
and CFC. The Hazardous waste (fluid) is sent to agencies authorized by the Pollution Control Board for recycling/refining.
(d) Other waste.
		

All the ferrous and non-ferrous metals are extracted from the vehicle for recycling.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

4.

208

Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No).
Yes
If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Yes

PRINCIPLE 3
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR
VALUE CHAINS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.

a.

Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by

Category

Total
(A)

Health insurance

Accident insurance

Maternity Benefits

Paternity Benefits

Day Care facilities

Number
(B)

% (B/A)

Number
(C)

% (C/A)

Number
(D)

% (D/A)

Number
(E)

% (E/A)

Number
(F)

% (F/A)

Permanent employees
Male

11,469

11,469

100.00

11,469

100.00

–

0.00

11,469

100.00

–

0.00

Female

777

777

100.00

777

100.00

777

100.00

–

0.00

777

100.00

Total

12,246

12,246

100.00

12,246

100.00

777

100.00

11,469

100.00

777

100.00

Other than Permanent employees
Male

966

964

99.79

964

99.79

–

0.00

958

99.17

–

0.00

Female

227

220

96.92

220

96.92

220

96.92

–

0.00

220

96.92

Total

1,193

1,184

99.25

1,184

99.25

220

96.92

958

99.17

220

96.92

b.

Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by

Category

Health insurance
Total (A)

Accident insurance

Maternity Benefits

Paternity Benefits

Day Care facilities

Number
(B)

% (B/A)

Number
(C)

% (C/A)

Number
(D)

% (D/A)

Number
(E)

% (E/A)

Number
(F)

% (F/A)

Permanent workers
Male

11,193

11,193

100.00

11,193

100.00

–

0.00

–

0.00

–

0.00

Female

56

56

100.00

56

100.00

56

100.00

–

0.00

38

67.86

Total

11,249

11,249

100.00

11,249

100.00

56

100.00

–

0.00

38

67.86

Other than Permanent workers
Male

35,167

21,340

60.68

21,589

61.39

–

0.00

1,692

4.81

–

0.00

Female

2,019

1,114

55.18

1,229

60.87

1,775

87.91

–

0.00

572

28.33

Total

37,186

22,454

60.38

22,818

61.36

1,775

87.91

1,692

4.81

572

28.33

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

209

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year.
FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

No. of employees
covered as
a % of total
employees

No. of workers
covered as a %
of total workers

Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.)

No. of employees
covered as
a % of total
employees

No. of workers
covered as a %
of total workers

Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.)

PF

100.00

100.00

Yes

100.00

100.00

Yes

Gratuity

100.00

100.00

Yes

100.00

100.00

Yes

–

93.16

Yes

–

90.31

Yes

Benefits

ESI

3.

Accessibility of workplaces
 re the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements
A
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this
regard.
Yes

4. 	Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so,
provide a web-link to the policy.
	Yes, as per the Company’s practice, the Equal Opportunity policy is on the intranet site for the information and implementation
by the internal stakeholders.
5.

Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Permanent employees

Permanent workers

Gender

Return to work rate

Retention rate

Return to work rate

Retention rate

Male

100%

75%

0%*

0%*

Female

60%

75%

0%*

0%*

Total

97%

75%

0%*

0%*

* In the Financial Year 2022-23, no permanent worker availed parental leave.
6. 	Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and
worker? If yes, details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of
the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers

Yes

Other than Permanent Workers

Yes

Permanent Employees

Yes

Other than Permanent Employees

Yes

Remark
The Company has a policy on Whistle-blower mechanism and
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (POSH) to
provide a work environment that ensures every person at the
workplace is treated with respect and dignity and is afforded
equal treatment. Issues relating to sexual harassment are
dealt with as per the Company's POSH Policy, the Company’s
POSH Policy is gender neutral.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

7.

210

Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognized by the listed entity:
FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

% (B/A)

Total employees/
workers in
respective
category (C)

No. of employees/
workers in respective
category, who are
part of association(s)
or Union (D)

% (D/C)

–

0.00%

9,831

–

0.00%

11,469

–

0.00%

9,227

–

0.00%

– Female

777

–

0.00%

604

–

0.00%

Total
Permanent
Workers

11,249

10,188

90.57%

11,466

10,285

89.70%

– Male

11,193

10,169

90.85%

11,411

10,271

90.01%

– Female

56

19

33.93%

55

14

25.45%

Total employees/
workers in
respective
category (A)

No. of employees/
workers in respective
category, who are
part of association(s)
or Union (B)

Total
Permanent
Employees

12,246

– Male

Category

8.

Details of training given to employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
Category

Total (A)

FY 2021-22

On Health and
safety measures

On Skill upgradation

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C)

% (C/A)

Total (D)

On Health and
safety measures

On Skill upgradation

No. (E)

% (E/D)

No. (F)

% (F/D)

Permanent Employees
Male

11,469

10,824

94.38%

11,001

95.92%

9,227

8,643

93.67%

8,587

93.06%

Female

777

700

90.09%

723

93.05%

604

538

89.07%

546

90.40%

Total

12,246

11,524

94.10%

11,724

95.74%

9,831

9,181

93.39%

9,133

92.90%

Permanent Workers
Male

11,193

8,069

72.09%

10,578

94.51%

11,411

9,138

80.08%

9,762

85.55%

Female

56

48

85.71%

56

100.00%

55

45

81.82%

48

87.27%

Total

11,249

8,117

72.16%

10,634

94.53%

11,466

9,183

80.09%

9,810

85.56%

9.

Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Total (A)

No. of
Employees/
Workers
(B)

% (B/A)

Total (C)

No. of
Employees/
Workers
(D)

% (D/C)

Male

11,469

11,469

100.00%

9,227

9,227

100.00%

Female

777

777

100.00%

604

604

100.00%

Total

12,246

12,246

100.00%

9,831

9,831

100.00%

Male

11,193

1,006

8.99%

11,411

1,041

9.12%

Female

56

37

66.07%

55

39

70.91%

Total

11,249

1,043

9.27%

11,466

1,080

9.42%

Category

Employees

Workers

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

211

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

10. Health and safety management system:
a. 	Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/No).
If yes, the coverage such system?
		

Yes, all Plants are ISO 45001:2018 certified for OHSMS by TuV Nord.

b. 	What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine
basis by the entity?
		Across all manufacturing plants, Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment- Control (HIRA) is in place for each of the
Routine and Non-Routine activities performed in plants. In addition to HIRA, the Company also identifies work related
hazards through the following processes:
		1.

Process Hazard Analysis

		2.

Job Safety Analysis

		3.

Safety inspections

		4.

Safety Surveys

		

Internal and External Safety Audits,

5.

		6.

Electrical Safety Audits,

		7.

Fire Audits

		

8.

Plant Level Safety Committee meetings

		

9.

Department Level Safety committee meetings

		

10. Safety Observation Tours (SoT)

c. 	Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from
such risks. (Y/N)
		

Yes, the Company has a Plant Safety Committee under FA1948 at each Manufacturing Plant.

d. 	
Do the employees/worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
(Yes/No)
		

Yes, there is an in-house Occupational Health Centre (OHC) for health checks of routine and non-routine employees.

11. Details of safety related incidents:
Safety Incident/Number
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked)

Total recordable work-related injuries

No. of fatalities

High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)

Category

FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Employees

–

–

Workers

0.19

0.13

Employees

–

–

Workers

14

9

Employees

–

–

Workers

–

–

Employees

–

–

Workers

–

–

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

212

12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
The Company has taken the following initiatives to ensure a safe and healthy workplace:
1. 	Conducting training for Dexterity, Induction, refresher and on-job trainings followed by test on Safety, Occupational Health
and Environment
2.

Safety Observation Tours (SoT), Safety inspections as per schedule

3.

Monthly Safety Theme is driven across plants

4. 	Walk through Safety audits and External and internal Safety audits for capturing unsafe conditions related to the
workplace and safety of employees and associates
5.

Fire Safety Audits

6.

Electrical Safety audits

7.

Behaviour based safety implantation process

8.

Review and closure of safety observations under Daily Work Management (DWM)

9. 	
Environmental Monitoring, Monitoring and Measurement of workplace for Noise, Heat, Ventilation, Air and water
Sampling as per scheduled program
10. Critical Equipment and Machinery Checks
11. 	
Management of Change Process, Gap Audit, Safe Operating Procedures, Competency Training for employees and
Contractors, Employee Participation, Mechanical Integrity, Work Permit System, Incident Investigation, Compliance
Audits, Emergency Planning and Response
12. Pre-startup and shutdown procedures
13. Compliance Management System
14. Management reviews with Senior Management
15. 	Conducting Plant level and Department level Safety Committee meetings, HIRA sheet, Job Safety Analysis (JSA) and
Safety Inspection
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Filed during
the year

Pending
resolution at
the end of year

Remarks

Filed during
the year

Pending
resolution at
the end of year

Remarks

Working Conditions

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Health and Safety

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

14. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices

100.00

Working Conditions

100.00

15. 	Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.
	HIRA - C is a dynamic document that is updated and reviewed periodically for all activities and operations performed in the
plant. If there is any Near Miss and/or Injury Incident, the HIRA sheet is revised with adequate control measures and is then
implemented for performing the respective activities.

213

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

PRINCIPLE 4
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.

Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.

	The Company identifies its stakeholders based on the Value Chain of the businesses and how they influence the Company.
The Company also believes in being a neighbour of choice and works in consultation with neighbourhood communities in
and around the vicinity of its business operation as well as in some of the aspirational districts beyond the neighbourhood.
2.

 ist stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder
L
group.
Purpose and scope of
engagement including key
topics and concerns raised
during such engagement

Whether identified
as Vulnerable and
Marginalized Group
(Yes/No)

Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper,
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other

Frequency of
engagement (Annually/
Half yearly/Quarterly/
others - please specify)

Shareholders

No

Website, E-mail, Newspaper,
dissemination of information
on the website of the Stock
Exchanges, Press Releases,
Annual
Reports,
General
Meetings,
Institutional
Investors Meets

Quarterly/Event based

Dissemination of information
having a bearing on the
performance/operations
of
the Company including price
sensitive information, updating
Shareholders
on
various
statutory requirements with
respect to their shareholding
in the Company, addressing
shareholders’ queries at the
General Meetings, earnings call
with institutional investors/
analysts in respect of quarterly/
half-yearly/annual
financial
results

Employees

No

Website, E-mail, Newsletters

Regular

Open
and
transparent
communication.
Addressing
employees’
questions
and
clarifications

Community

No

Community Meetings

Regular

Project progress and benefits

Suppliers

No

Website, E-mail, Newsletters

Regular

Business
Model
Resilience,
Supply
Chain
Management,
Materials Sourcing and Material
Efficiency

Dealers

No

Website, E-mail

Regular

Service Quality, Sustainability
and Creating Customer Delight

Customer

No

Website, E-mail, Newsletters

Regular

Product Quality and Safety,
Selling Practices and Product
Labelling,
Access
and
Affordability

Stakeholder
Group

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

214

PRINCIPLE 5
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 	Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity:

Category

FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Total (A)

No. of
employees/
workers covered
(B)

No. of
employees/
workers covered
(D)

% (B/A)

Total (C)

% (D/C)

Employees
Permanent

12,246

11,026

90.04%

9,831

8,848

90.00%

Other than permanent

1,193

864

72.42%

1,334

1,173

87.93%

Total Employees

13,439

11,890

88.47%

11,165

10,021

89.75%

Permanent

11,249

10,143

90.17%

11,466

10,060

87.74%

Other than permanent

37,186

28,800

77.45%

26,329

22,116

84.00%

Total Workers

48,435

38,943

80.40%

37,795

32,176

85.13%

Workers

2.

Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
Category

Total (A)

FY 2021-22

Equal to Minimum
Wage

More than Minimum
Wage

No. (B)

% (B/A)

No. (C)

% (C/A)

Total (D)

Equal to Minimum
Wage

More than Minimum
Wage

No. (E)

% (E/D)

No. (F)

% (F/D)

Employees
Permanent

12,246

–

0.00

12,246

100.00

9,831

–

0.00

9,831

100.00

Male

11,469

–

0.00

11,469

100.00

9,227

–

0.00

9,227

100.00

Female

777

–

0.00

777

100.00

604

–

0.00

604

100.00

Other than
permanent

1,193

–

0.00

1,193

100.00

1,334

–

0.00

1,334

100.00

Male

966

–

0.00

966

100.00

1,187

–

0.00

1,187

100.00

Female

227

–

0.00

227

100.00

147

–

0.00

147

100.00

Permanent

11,249

–

0.00

11,249

100.00

11,466

81

0.71

11,385

99.29

Male

11,193

–

0.00

11,193

100.00

11,411

81

0.71

11,330

99.29

Female

56

–

0.00

56

100.00

55

–

0.00

55

100.00

Other than
permanent

37,186

11,128

29.93

26,058

70.07

26,329

8,401

31.91

17,928

68.09

Male

35,167

10,648

30.28

24,519

69.72

25,600

8,110

31.68

17,490

68.32

Female

2,019

480

23.77

1,539

76.23

729

292

40.05

437

59.95

Workers

215

3.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

Details of remuneration/salary/wages:
Male

#

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Female

Number

Median remuneration/salary/
wages of respective category
(Rs.)

Number

Median remuneration/salary/
wages of respective category
(Rs.)

Board of Directors (BoD)

9#

0.64 Cr.

3

0.56 Cr.

Key Managerial Personnel

4*

9.21 Cr.

–

–

Employees other than BoD and
KMP

11,469

0.17 Cr.

777

0.14 Cr.

Workers

11,193

0.06 Cr.

56

0.04 Cr.


Includes
one of the Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors who has waived his right to receive sitting fees/remuneration during his tenure as a NonExecutive Non-Independent Director of the Company.

* Includes Managing Director & CEO and Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) who are also covered in the number of directors on the Board.

4. 	Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused
or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
Yes, there is a Ethics helpline that addresses all such issues, which has a structured mechanism for closure.
5.

Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.

	The Company has Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (“POSH”) and Ethics and Governance Policy
which include stringent SOPs for human rights grievance redressal with respect to sexual harassment and ethical practices.
Further, the Company has an initiative SPEAK UP to spread awareness about POSH. As a part of Speak UP Awareness
campaign, case studies on corruption and harassment have been prepared which are circulated to the ethics counsellors
along with the SPEAK UP presentations. The ethics counsellors then conduct SPEAK UP awareness sessions for officers
and workmen covering various case studies. Leadership messages on SPEAK UP are also circulated on a timely basis. Thus,
zero tolerance towards any human rights violation is ensured diligently in the Company.
6.

Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
Filed during
the year

Pending
resolution at
the end of year

FY 2021-22
Remarks

Filed during
the year

Pending
resolution at
the end of year

Remarks

Sexual Harassment

9

–

NA

9

2

Complaints
have been
resolved
subsequent to
the end of the
year

Discrimination at
workplace

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Child Labour

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Wages

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Other human rights
related issues

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

7.

Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.

	The Company has policies and laid down processes on discrimination at workplace, POSH and Ethics and Governance, which
include stringent SOPs for human rights grievance redressal with respect to sexual harassment and ethical practices.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

8.

216

Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)

	Yes, the Company has a policy on zero child labour, zero tolerance for discrimination at workplace and other human rights
violations which extends to supply chain as well.
9.

Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)

Child labour

100.00

Forced/involuntary labour

100.00

Sexual harassment

100.00

Discrimination at workplace

100.00

Wages

100.00

Others - please specify

NA

10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the
assessments at Question 9 above.
NA

PRINCIPLE 6
BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.

Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity:

Parameter

Please specify unit

FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Total electricity consumption (A)

GJ – Giga Joules

15,03,823

12,15,079

Total fuel consumption (B)

GJ – Giga Joules

9,64,392

9,06,955

Energy consumption through other sources (C)

GJ – Giga Joules

–

–

Total energy consumption (A+B+C)

GJ – Giga Joules

24,68,215

21,22,034

Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption/turnover in rupees)

GJ – Giga Joules

NA

NA

GJ – Giga Joules/Eq Vehicle
Giga Joules/Eq Tractor

Automotive Sector: 1.264
Farm Sector: 1.303

Automotive Sector: 1.583
Farm Sector: 1.417

Energy intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
2.

 oes the entity have any sites/facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve
D
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any
No

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

217

3.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Details of the following disclosures related to water:

Parameter
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
(ii) Groundwater
(iii) Third party water
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water
(v) Others
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/
turnover)
Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity

Please specify unit

FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres

95,447
5,93,344
12,18,354
–
1,19,922

64,755
5,17,511
9,08,311
–
1,12,909

Kilolitres

20,27,067

16,03,486

Kilolitres

20,27,067

16,03,486

Kilolitres

NA

NA

Kilolitres/Eq Vehicle
Kilolitres/Eq Tractor

Automotive Sector: 1.204
Farm Sector: 0.768

Automotive Sector: 1.348
Farm Sector: 0.846

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
4. 	Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and
implementation.
•	Yes, zero liquid discharge is one of the main focus areas among all environment related initiatives. No water goes out
from the Company‘s site boundary untreated except rainwater through dedicated storm water drains.
•

Most of the plants have rainwater recharging pits for injecting rainwater into deep aquifers.

•	Though the Company relies more heavily on freshwater, recycled water is, and will continue to be, important for the
Company to secure enough water to manufacture vehicles and parts. The Company recycles 44% of fresh water
through waste water recycling plants.
•	Domestic wastewater is recycled through STP (sewage treatment plant) and process wastewater through ETP (effluent
treatment plant). Each STP and ETP treatment plants have got 3 levels of treatment i.e., Primary, Secondary and Tertiary.
In primary treatment through HRSCC (high-rate solid contact clarifier) all suspended solids are removed. In secondary
treatment, through MBBR technology, BOD +COD levels are controlled well below the permissible limit. In tertiary
treatment, through Carbon, sand filtration and disinfection units (UV/chlorination) bacteria and viruses are removed.
•	A portion of recycled water is further treated in reverse osmosis plant (to make it compatible for process and cooling requirement)
and the remaining portion of treated water goes into gardening to the existing green belt created within operations boundary.
5.

Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity:

Parameter

Please specify unit

FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

NOx

tCO2e

11.68

4.38

SOx

tCO2e

10.72

7.04

Particulate matter (PM)

tCO2e

15.99

8.98

Persistent organic pollutants (POP)

tCO2e

NA

NA

Volatile organic compounds (VOC)

tCO2e

NA

NA

Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)

tCO2e

NA

NA

Others - please specify

NA

NA

NA

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

218

6.	Details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity:
Parameter

Unit

FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4,
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

tCO2e

58,935

55,451

Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4,
N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)

tCO2e

2,02,306

2,33,939

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover

NA

NA

NA

Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity (optional) - the
relevant metric may be selected by the entity

tCO2e/Eq Vehicle tCO2e/
Eq Tractor

Automotive Sector: 0.105
Farm Sector: 0.177

Automotive Sector: 0.204
Farm Sector: 0.207

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
7.

Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details:
•	Yes, the Company is committed to becoming Carbon Neutral by 2040. It is also committed for Science Based Target
(SBT) to de-carbonize its growth and thus contributing to keep global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius as per
Paris accord 2015.
•	The Company has a robust roadmap for achieving these commitments through improvement in energy efficiency and
adoption of renewable energy. Few of the initiatives to reduce Green House Gas emission are mentioned below:

		

o

Adoption of Renewable energy through solar and windmills

		

o

Adoption of clean energy i.e., through switching over from HSD to PNG

		

o

Replacement of conventional air circulators with BLDC technology air circulators

		

o

Radiant cooling system to optimize the HVAC operating load

		

o

Replacement of old conventional lights with LED’s

		

o

Installation of energy efficient air compressor

		

o

Replacement of old motors with premium efficiency IE3 motors

		

o

Installation of Energy efficient inverter split AC’s

		

o

Installation of auto shut off valves for compressed air

		

o

Waste heat recovery from air compressors

		

o

Installation of IT guns for spot welding etc

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

219

8.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Details related to waste management by the entity:

Parameter

Parameter

FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Plastic waste (A)

metric tonnes

2,753.4

2,033.2

E-waste (B)

metric tonnes

128.7

105.47

Bio-medical waste (C)

metric tonnes

0.56

0.57

Construction and demolition waste (D)

metric tonnes

236.9

12.4

Battery waste (E)

metric tonnes

143.1

118.1

Radioactive waste (F)

metric tonnes

–

–

Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)

metric tonnes

8,037.6

5,626.7

Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition
i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)

metric tonnes

1,46,622.6

1,14,520.1

Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H)

metric tonnes

1,57,922.9

1,22,416.54

Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)

For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling,
re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)

Recycled

metric tonnes

97,266.4

83,182

(ii)

Re-used

metric tonnes

0.0

215

(iii)

Other recovery operations

metric tonnes

1,762.3

–

metric tonnes

99,028.7

83,397.00

Total
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal
method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i)

Incineration

metric tonnes

4,738.4

678

(ii)

Landfilling

metric tonnes

53,668.7

35,057

(iii)

Other disposal operations

metric tonnes

487.1

3,276

metric tonnes

58,894.2

39,011.00

Total

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP.
9.

 riefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted
B
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the
practices adopted to manage such wastes.
•	The Company has robust waste management process and aims to be Zero Waste to Landfill for all its sites by 2030.
•	The Company’s approach to waste management is that of a circular economy aimed at eliminating waste and the
continual use of resources. In a circular economy, waste materials and energy become input for other processes or as
regenerative resources for nature.
•	The Company is committed to responsible disposal as per all applicable norms, leading to better ecosystems. When the
waste diversion rate for any company is 99% or more then it can be declared as “Zero Waste to Landfill”.
•	Landfill diversion can occur through recycling which can include glass, paper, metal, plastic, textile, or electronics
(E-Waste), lead batteries etc.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

220

•	Organic Waste can be diverted to biological treatment through which the waste is reused. Another method is the
thermal treatment (incineration) with the generation of power.
•	Hazardous waste such as paint sludge, oily cotton waste can be diverted to coprocessing operation, which can be
reused as a resource (fuel) for cement industries. It can be also recycled as raw material.
•	Food waste generated at manufacturing plants are moved to the biogas plant for biogas generation. All the nonhazardous waste, which is generated inside the plant like metal, non-metal parts are being recycled.
•	Implementing “Zero Waste to Landfill” program resulted in not only environmental benefit but also in business benefit.
The Company started looking at all the Company’s waste as a valuable resource and started converting it into wealth.
This is also called Waste Circular Economy in which the Company’s waste is used as a resource for someone.
10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries,
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental
approvals/clearances are required, please specify details:
S.
No.

Location of
operations/offices

Type of operations

Whether the conditions of environmental approval/
clearance are being complied with? (Y/N)

If no, the reasons
there of and
corrective action
taken, if any.

1

NA

NA

NA

NA

11. 	Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year:
Name and brief
details of project

EIA Notification No.

Date

Whether
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes/No)

Results communicated in
public domain (Yes/No)

Relevant Web link

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

12.	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act
and rules thereunder (Y/N).
Yes

If not, details of all such non-compliances:
S.
No.

Specify the law/
regulation/
guidelines which
was not complied
with

Provide details
of the
non-compliance

Any fines/penalties/action taken by regulatory agencies
such as pollution control boards or by courts

Corrective action
taken, if any

1

NA

NA

NA

NA

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

221

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

PRINCIPLE 7
BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT
IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.

a.

Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.

		6
b.	List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such
body) the entity is a member of/affiliated to.
S.
No.

Name of the trade and industry chambers/associations

Reach of trade and industry chambers/associations (State/
National)

1

The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India
(ASSOCHAM)

National

2

Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI)

State

3

Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)

National

4

Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI)

National

5

The Employers' Federation of India (EFI)

National

6

Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM)

National

2. 	Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse
orders from regulatory authorities.

Name of authority

Brief of the case

Corrective action taken

NA

NA

NA

PRINCIPLE 8
BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1. 	Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year.
Name and brief
details of project

SIA notification
No.

Date of
notification

NA

NA

NA

Whether conducted by Results communicated
independent external
in public domain
agency (Yes/No)
(Yes/No)
NA

NA

Relevant Web Link

NA

The Company did not start any greenfield project in the reporting year, and hence, no community group was rehabilitated and
resettled for any project. Therefore, the question is not applicable.
2. 	Information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity:
S. No.

Name of Project
for which R&R is
ongoing

State

District

No. of Project
Affected Families
(PAFs)

% of PAFs
covered by R&R

Amounts paid to
PAFs in the
FY (In INR)

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

The Company did not start any greenfield project in the reporting year, and hence, no community group was rehabilitated and
resettled for any project. Therefore, the question is not applicable.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

3.

222

Describe the mechanism to receive and redress grievances of the community.
NA

4.

Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2022-23

FY 2021-22

Directly sourced from MSMEs/small producers

11%

12%

Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts

78%

68%

PRINCIPLE 9
BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
1.

Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.

	The Mahindra Relationships Center (MRC) manages Toll free numbers, Social Media Platforms and an email address through
which consumer can raise their complaints.
2. 	Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product

100.00

Safe and responsible usage

100.00

Recycling and/or safe disposal

100.00

3.

Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2022-23
(Current Financial Year)

FY 2021-22
(Previous Financial Year)

Received
during the
year

Pending
resolution at
end of year

Remarks

Received
during the
year

Pending
resolution at
end of year

Remarks

Data privacy

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Advertising

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Cyber-security

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Delivery of essential services

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

Restrictive Trade Practices

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

–

–

NA

65,330

1,863

–

51,151

1,061

–

Unfair Trade Practices
Other (Consumer Complaints)

4.

Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number

Reasons for recall

Voluntary recalls

–

NA

Forced recalls

–

NA

5. 	Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a
web-link of the policy.
Yes, https://mahindra.com/privacy-policy.
6. 	Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services;
cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory
authorities on safety of products/services.
NA

223

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Financial Position at a Glance
Rupees crores
As per Ind AS and Schedule III of
the Companies Act, 2013

As per previous
GAAP and
Schedule III of the
Companies Act,
2013

2023

2022*

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Property, Plant and Equipment
and Intangible Assets

19,761

20,167

18,137

14,404

12,502

10,988

9,811

9,158

7,766

7,105

Investments

27,087

24,204

21,783

19,938

22,016

20,583

17,908

13,547

13,139

11,380

Inventories

8,881

5,970

4,783

3,401

3,839

2,702

2,758

2,688

2,438

2,804

Trade Receivable/Debtors

4,042

3,039

2,203

2,999

3,946

3,173

2,939

2,512

2,558

2,510

Other Non Current/Current Assets

16,009

13,226

14,659

9,760

10,394

10,001

6,297

7,594

6,181

7,490

Borrowings and Lease Liabilities

5,026

6,743

7,786

2,932

2,480

2,864

2,773

1,844

2,620

3,745

Non Current/Current Liabilities
and Provisions

25,927

19,903

17,378

11,694

15,373

14,011

10,409

10,773

9,230

9,863

Deferred Tax Liabilities/(Assets)
(Net)

1,470

1,762

1,450

1,408

634

277

(255)

460

222

890

Equity Capital

599

598

597

597

596

595

297

296

296

295

Other Equity

42,758

37,600

34,354

33,871

33,613

29,699

26,489

22,127

19,714

16,496

Net Worth

43,357

38,198

34,951

34,468

34,209

30,294

26,786

22,423

20,009

16,791

Book Value Per Share (Rupees)

361.87

319.22

292.53

288.91

287.09 + 254.59

451.23

378.36

338.34

284.26

+ Book Value Per Share is adjusted for Bonus Shares alloted in the ratio of 1:1 during December 2017.
* Refer note 44(B) to the Financial Statements.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

224

Summary of Operations
Rupees crores
As per Ind AS and Schedule III
of the Companies Act, 2013

As per previous GAAP and Schedule III
of the Companies Act, 2013

2023

2022*

2021

2020

2019

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

Income

87,505

59,841

45,829

47,156

55,303

50,481

48,729

44,489

41,481

43,838

Materials

64,558

42,560

30,177

31,633

38,256

34,135

32,081

29,516

27,955

29,432

—

—

—

—

—

759

3,330

2,764

2,188

2,612

3,650

3,330

3,252

2,880

2,980

2,841

2,714

2,349

2,317

2,164

273

226

396

113

113

112

160

186

214

259

Depreciation, amortisation and
impairment expense

3,154

2,498

2,370

2,223

1,860

1,479

1,526

1,068

975

863

Other Expenses

6,310

4,869

4,244

5,177

5,738

5,487

4,743

4,390

3,999

4,191

Exceptional items

(1,430)

(209)

(3,087)

(2,014)

(30)

434

548

69

336

52

Profit before tax for the year

8,131

6,148

2,303

3,116

6,325

6,102

4,723

4,284

4,169

4,369

Tax for the year

1,582

1,278

1,319

1,785

1,529

1,746

1,080

1,080

848

611

Balance profit

6,549

4,870

984

1,331

4,796

4,356

3,643

3,205

3,321

3,758

Dividend (including tax thereon)

#2,021

1,436

1,088

292

1,187

1,055

925

841

847

963

Equity Dividend (%)

325

231

175

47

170

150

260

240

240

280

Earnings Per Share (Rupees) ^

54.7

40.73

8.24

11.16

40.29

36.64

30.69

26.52

28.12

31.83

Vehicles produced/
purchased

(Units) 7,02,407

4,52,203

3,51,619

4,66,253

6,18,412

5,46,974

4,99,117

4,96,859

4,64,799

5,06,035

Vehicles sold

(Units) 6,98,456

4,65,601

3,48,621

4,71,141

6,07,548

5,48,508

5,06,624

4,94,096

4,64,850

5,07,176

Tractors produced

(Units) 4,15,832

3,55,299

3,49,262

2,95,126

3,35,519

3,15,759

2,72,308

2,17,383

2,24,330

2,77,425

Tractors sold

(Units) 4,03,981

3,50,981

3,51,431

2,98,927

3,27,033

3,17,531

2,63,177

2,14,173

2,34,766

2,68,487

Excise Duty
Employee Benefits Expense
Finance Costs/Interest

^ Adjusted for Bonus Shares alloted in the ratio of 1:1 during December 2017.
# Proposed Dividend.
* Refer note 44(B) to the Financial Statements.

225

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Financial Highlights

Earnings Per Share (Rs.)

PAT growth over Net Income (Rupees crores)
Net Income

87505

90000

Net Income

50.00

8000

70000

50000

54.70

9000

6549
59841

55303
4796

47156

45829

7000
6000

4870

5000

40000

4000

30000

3000

20000

2000

10000

1331

984

0
FY2020

40.73

40.29

30.00

20.00

10.00

11.16
8.24

1000

0
FY2019

40.00
EPS (Rs.)

80000

60000

60.00

10000

PAT

PAT

100000

FY2021

FY2022

0.00

FY2023

FY2019

FY2020

FY2021

FY2022

FY2023

Segmental Revenue
F-2023

Debt Equity Ratio
0.50

Others
3.2%

0.40

Farm
Equipment
28.2%

Times

0.30
0.22

0.20

0.10

0.17

0.08

0.11

0.09

0.00
FY2019

FY2020

FY2021

FY2022

FY2023

Automotive
68.6%

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

226

227

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

228

Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
 Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the “Company”) which comprise the standalone balance sheet as
at 31 March 2023, and the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in equity
and standalone statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including a summary of significant
accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial statements give the
information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31 March 2023, and its profit and other comprehensive loss, changes
in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those
SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of
the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that
are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements.
 Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial statements of
the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment assessment of certain long-term investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
The key audit matter

How the matter was addressed in our audit

The Company has long-term investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures
and associates (collectively “the investments”) aggregating Rs. 17,539
crores as at 31 March 2023. The Company records the investments
at cost less any provision for impairment loss. Changes in business
environment, including market or economic environment, geopolitical
situation and general inflationary trend could have a significant impact
on the valuation of certain investments. Investments where an indication
based on these factors exist, are tested for impairment at the end of
the reporting period.

Our audit procedures included:

The Company determines the recoverable value of such investments
and compares it to its carrying amount to determine impairment loss.
The recoverable value is determined basis following key assumptions:
•

projected future cash inflows;

•

expected growth rate; discount rate; terminal growth rate;

•

comparison of price and market multiples

The recoverable amount, which is the higher of the market value or Value
In Use (VIU) or fair value less cost of disposal of such investments, is
estimated and the impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement
of profit and loss and carrying amount of investments is reduced to its
recoverable amount.
See Note 2(d)(iv) to the Standalone financial statements.

•	Assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
key controls in respect of the Company’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models;
•	Obtained an understanding of various external factors impacting the
recoverable value of the investment as at the end of the reporting
period;
•	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash flows
such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation and
growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived data,
past performances, consistency with the Board approved investment
plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Involved valuation specialists, as applicable, to evaluate the
assumptions including the discount rates used in VIU calculations;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management; and
•	Assessed the adequacy of disclosures on key judgements, assumptions
and quantitative data with respect to impairment losses.

229

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Impairment assessment of tangible assets and development expenditure capitalised and currently under development
The key audit matter

How the matter was addressed in our audit

The Company’s automotive and trucks and buses Cash Generating Units
(‘Auto CGU’) have aggregate tangible assets of Rs. 10,748 crores, which
includes property, plant and equipment of Rs. 10,040 crores and Rs. 708
crores of capital-work-in-progress as at 31 March 2023. Further, the Auto
CGU has Rs. 3,620 crores of development expenditure capitalized, and
Rs. 956 crores of intangible assets under development.

Our audit procedures included:

Changes in business environment, including market or economic
environment, geopolitical situation and general inflationary trend could
have a significant impact on the valuation of the tangible and intangible
assets of the Auto CGU. The tangible and intangible assets of the Auto CGU
are tested for impairment periodically. The Company assesses the carrying
amounts of the tangible and intangible assets to determine indicators of
impairment loss as the recoverable values rely on certain assumptions and
estimates of future performance which impact the valuation. If any such
indication exists, the recoverable amount which is the higher of VIU or fair
value less cost to sell of the Auto CGU, is estimated and the impairment
loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. The carrying amount
of the tangible and intangible assets of Auto CGU is reduced to its
recoverable amount.
See Note 2(g) to the Standalone financial statements.

•	Assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
key controls in respect of the Company’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models;
•	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash flows
such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation and
growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived data,
past performances, consistency with the Board approved investment
plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Involved valuation specialists as applicable, to evaluate the
assumptions including the discount rates used in VIU calculations;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management;
•	Evaluated the stage of development of the intangible assets,
judgments used for expected probable economic benefits and
associated expenditures, and their assessment of feasibility of the
projects; and
•	Assessed the adequacy of disclosures on key judgements, assumptions
and quantitative data with respect to impairment losses.

Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Company’s annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. The Company’s annual report
is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Company’s annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the
matter to those charged with governance and take necessary actions, as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the
preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/ loss and other comprehensive
income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Management and Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

230

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
•	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made
by the Management and Board of Directors.
•	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in
preparation of standalone financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related
to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a
going concern.
•	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether
the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine
that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the
extent applicable.
2.

A.

As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:

		

a.	We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary
for the purposes of our audit.

		

b.	In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
examination of those books.

		

c.	The standalone balance sheet, the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the
standalone statement of changes in equity and the standalone statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in
agreement with the books of account.

		

d.	In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

231

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

		

e.	On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31 March 2023 taken on record by the Board
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section
164(2) of the Act.

		

f.	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Company and the
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure B”.

B.	With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:
		

a.	The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2023 on its financial position in its standalone
financial statements - Refer Note 43 to the standalone financial statements.

		

b.	The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses,
if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 38 to the standalone financial statements.

		

c.	There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by
the Company.

		

d.

(i) 	The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the Note 41 to
the standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or
share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary
shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of
the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

			

(ii)	The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been received by the
Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

			

(iii)	Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule
11(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material misstatement.

		

e.	The final dividend paid by the Company during the year, in respect of the same declared for the previous year, is in accordance
with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend.

			As stated in Note 17 to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company has proposed final dividend
for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend declared is
in accordance with Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
		
C.

f.	As proviso to rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable for the Company only with effect from
1 April, 2023, reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not applicable.
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:

		In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the Company to its directors
during the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is not
in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details under
Section 197(16) of the Act which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W-100022

Place : Mumbai
Date : 26 May, 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. 113156
ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJH2095

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

232

Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ report on the standalone financial statements of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(i)

(a)

		
(i)

(A)	The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of Property, Plant and
Equipment.
(B)

The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.

(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has a regular programme of physical verification of its Property, Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant and equipment are verified
once in three years. In accordance with this programme, certain property, plant and equipment were verified during the year. In our opinion,
this periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. No material
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
(c)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the title deeds
of immovable properties (other than immovable properties where the Company is the lessee and the leases agreements are duly executed in
favour of the lessee) disclosed in the standalone financial statements are held in the name of the Company.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during the year.
(e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there are no
proceedings initiated or pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions
Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.

(ii)

(a)	The inventory, except goods-in-transit and stocks lying with third parties, has been physically verified by the management during the year.
For stocks lying with third parties at the year-end, written confirmations have been obtained and for goods-in-transit subsequent evidence of
receipts has been linked with inventory records. In our opinion, the frequency of such verification is reasonable and procedures and coverage
as followed by management were appropriate. No discrepancies were noticed on verification between the physical stocks and the book records
that were more than 10% in the aggregate of each class of inventory
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks or financial institutions on the basis of
security of current assets. In our opinion, the quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company with such banks or financial institutions
are in agreement with the books of account of the Company.

(iii)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company has
not given any security or advance in nature of loans to companies, firms, limited liability partnership or any other parties during the year. The
Company has made investments, provided guarantee and granted unsecured loans, to companies and other parties in respect of which the requisite
information is as below. The Company has not made investments, provided guarantees and granted loans in firms or limited liability partnership.
(a)	Based on the audit procedures carried on by us and as per the information and explanations given to us the Company has provided loans or
stood guarantee to any other entity as below:
Rs in crores
Particulars

Guarantees

Loans

Aggregate amount during the year

361

976

Subsidiaries

361

600

Others

—

376

Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date

20

770

Subsidiaries

20

759

Others

—

11

(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures conducted by us, in our opinion the investments
made and guarantees provided and the terms and conditions of the grant of loans and guarantees provided during the year are, prima facie,
not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.

233

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

(c)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, in the case of
loans given, in our opinion the repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and the repayments or receipts have been
regular. Further, the Company has not given any advance in the nature of loan to any party during the year.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there is no
overdue amount for more than ninety days in respect of loans given. Further, the Company has not given any advances in the nature of loans
to any party during the year.
(e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there is no loan
or advance in the nature of loan granted falling due during the year, which has been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle
the overdues of existing loans given to same parties.
(f)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of
repayment.
(iv)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of records of the Company, in respect of investments
made, loans and guarantees given by the Company, in our opinion the provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)
have been complied with.
(v)	The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits from the public. Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the Order is
not applicable.
(vi)	We have broadly reviewed the books of accounts maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by the Central Government for
maintenance of cost records under Section 148(1) of the Act in respect of its manufactured goods and are of the opinion that prima facie, the
prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. However, we have not carried out a detailed examination of the records with a
view to determine whether these are accurate or complete.
(vii)

(a)	The Company does not have liability in respect of Service tax, Duty of excise, Sales tax and Value added tax during the year since effective
1 July 2017, these statutory dues has been subsumed into GST.

		According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, in our opinion
amounts deducted / accrued in the books of account in respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Service Tax, Provident
Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues have generally been regularly deposited by
the Company with the appropriate authorities.
		According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, no undisputed
amounts payable in respect of Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or
other statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 March 2023 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, statutory dues
relating to Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues
which have not been deposited on account of any dispute are as follows:
Name of the statute

Nature of
the dues

Amount
(Rs. In crores)

Period to which the amount
relates

Forum where dispute is pending

Income Tax Act, 1961

Income Tax

13.01

A.Y. 2007-08, A.Y. 2009-10,
A.Y. 2012-13, A.Y. 2016-17 and
A.Y. 2019-20

Assessing Officer

73.65

A.Y. 2014-15, A.Y. 2015-16,
A.Y. 2017-18, and A.Y. 2021-22

CIT(A)

1,455.65

A.Y. 2016-17 and A.Y. 2018-19

Income Tax Appellate Tribunal

0.78

2008-2013

Appellate Authority-Commissioner

10.94

2007-2012

High Court

207.05

1991-1992 and 2001-2017

Appellate Authority-Tribunal

2007-2017

Supreme Court

Central Excise Act, 1944

Duty of
Excise

1,731.65

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Name of the statute

Nature of
the dues

Amount
(Rs. In crores)

Period to which the amount
relates

Forum where dispute is pending

Sales Tax and Value
Added Tax

Sales Tax

201.40

2004-2018

Appellate Authority-Commissioner

180.46

1994-2016

High Court

3.85

2006-2010

Appellate Authority-Revisional Board

436.13

1991-1993 and 2003-2018

Appellate Authority-Tribunal

Finance Act, 1994

Service Tax

48.82

2007-2018

Appellate Authority-Tribunal

Customs Act, 1962

Duty of
Customs

1.41

2008-2021

Appellate Authority-Commissioner

29.72

1991-1994 and 2018-2020

Appellate Authority-Tribunal

11.11

2017-2021

Appellate Authority-Commissioner

0.71

2017-2021

Appellate Authority-Tribunal

GST Act, 2017

GST

234

(viii)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company has
not surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of account, in the tax assessments under the Income
Tax Act, 1961 as income during the year.
(ix)

(a)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not defaulted in repayment of loans and borrowing or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or government authority.
(c)	According to the information and explanations given to us by the management, the Company has not obtained any term loans during the year.
Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the balance sheet of the Company, we report that
no funds raised on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
(e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the standalone financial statements of the
Company, we report that the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as defined under the Act.
(f)	According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, we report that the Company has not raised loans
during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate companies (as defined under the Act).

(x)

(a)	The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments). Accordingly,
clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the year. Accordingly,
clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable.

(xi)

(a)	Based on examination of the books and records of the Company and according to the information and explanations given to us, considering
the principles of materiality outlined in Standards on Auditing, we report that no fraud by the Company or on the Company has been noticed
or reported during the course of the audit.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under sub-section (12) of Section 143 of the Act has been filed by the
auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
(c)	We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while determining the nature, timing
and extent of our audit procedures.

(xii)	According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, clause 3(xii) of the Order is not
applicable.

235

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

(xiii)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the transactions with related parties are in compliance with
Section 177 and 188 of the Act, where applicable, and the details of the related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial
statements as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv)

(a)	Based on information and explanations provided to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the Company has an internal audit system
commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
(b)

We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date for the period under audit.

(xv)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with
its directors or persons connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section 192 of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi)

(a)	The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the
Order is not applicable.
(b)	The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the
Order is not applicable.
(c)	The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly,
clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(d)	According to the information and explanations provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank)
Directions, 2016) has more than one CIC as part of the Group. The Group has four CICs as part of the Group.

(xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xix)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation of
financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as
on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they
fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the
Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when
they fall due.
	Also refer to the Other Information paragraph of our main audit report which explains that the other information comprising the information
included in the Company’s annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
(xx)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount under sub-section (5) of Section 135 of
the Act pursuant to any project. Accordingly, clauses 3(xx)(a) and 3(xx)(b) of the Order are not applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W-100022

Place : Mumbai
Date : 26 May, 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. 113156
ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJH2095

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

236

Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ report on the standalone financial statements of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
 Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of
Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“the Company”) as of 31 March 2023
in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements and such internal
financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria
established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets,
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial
information, as required under the Act.
A
 uditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the standalone financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W-100022

Place : Mumbai
Date : 26 May, 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. 113156
ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJH2095

237

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Balance Sheet | as at 31st March, 2023
Rupees crores
Note No.

I.

ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment......................................................................................................................................................................
Capital work-in-progress.....................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets under development......................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Loans..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................
Income tax assets (net)......................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current assets..................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents.................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents...................................................................................................
(v) Loans..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(vi) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................
Other current assets............................................................................................................................................................................................
Assets held for sale ............................................................................................................................................................................................

II.

TOTAL ASSETS.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital...............................................................................................................................................................................................
Other equity................................................................................................................................................................................................................
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax liabilities (net).............................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Lease liabilities ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Trade payables
(a) Total outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises......................................................
(b)	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises.....
(iv) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................
Other current liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Current tax liabilities (net)..............................................................................................................................................................................
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale................................................................................

TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES............................................................................................................................................................
The accompanying notes 1 to 46 are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached.

2023

2022
[Refer note
44 (B)]

4
5
6
7

13,050.12
950.27
3,926.08
1,834.35

12,242.92
1,624.27
2,661.04
3,638.47

8
9
10

17,539.06
177.45
1,503.29
910.60
1,244.96
41,136.18

16,302.40
385.20
1,567.20
647.67
1,311.44
40,380.61

12

8,881.35

5,970.39

8
13
14
14
9
10
11
15

9,548.01
4,041.73
1,310.11
3,171.64
2,176.96
1,321.49
3,499.68
692.66
34,643.63
75,779.81

7,902.06
3,038.57
717.26
2,933.31
1,845.52
1,128.45
2,639.93
50.40
26,225.89
66,606.50

16

599.05
42,757.68
43,356.73

598.30
37,599.75
38,198.05

18

2,331.56
268.17
678.36
1,207.09
1,470.29
427.62
6,383.09

5,681.53
163.90
683.12
925.15
1,762.18
211.85
9,427.73

18

2,312.17
113.62

816.24
81.38

23
23
19
22
20

206.93
16,938.69
1,622.21
3,578.21
606.83
476.16
185.17
26,039.99
75,779.81

116.32
12,853.81
1,396.52
2,946.20
463.78
306.47
—
18,980.72
66,606.50

11

19
20
21
22

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

238

Statement of Profit and Loss | for the period ended 31st March, 2023
Rupees crores
Note No.

2023

2022
[Refer note
44 (B)]
57,786.94

INCOME
Revenue from operations.................................................................................................................................................................................

24

84,960.26

Other income............................................................................................................................................................................................................

25

2,545.17

2,053.75

87,505.43

59,840.69

62,226.20

40,729.87

3,406.84

2,371.61

Total income............................................................................................................................................................................................................
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed..........................................................................................................................................................................

26

Purchases of stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress.......................................................

27

(1,074.80)

(541.07)

Employee benefits expense............................................................................................................................................................................

28

3,649.88

3,329.59

Finance costs.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

29

272.78

226.18

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense...................................................................................................................

30

3,154.46

2,498.39

Other expenses.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

31

Total expenses......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit before exceptional items and tax........................................................................................................................................
Exceptional items (net)......................................................................................................................................................................................

33

Profit before tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................

6,309.75

4,869.47

77,945.11

53,484.04

9,560.32

6,356.65

(1,429.54)

(208.67)

8,130.78

6,147.98
1,051.69

Tax expense
Current tax.....................................................................................................................................................................................................

21

1,846.51

Deferred tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................

21

(264.37)

226.41

6,548.64

4,869.88

Profit for the year..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Other comprehensive income/(loss)
A.

(i)

Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss

		

(a)

Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans..........................................................................................

(124.07)

137.05

		

(b)

Equity instruments through other comprehensive income................................................................

10.07

(30.43)

(ii)

Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss.......................................

28.71

(34.16)

(i)

Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
(1.01)

B.

		

(a)

Debt instruments through other comprehensive income...................................................................

(1.87)

		

(b)	Effective portion of gains and losses on designated portion of hedging instruments
in a cash flow hedge......................................................................................................................................................

16.64

6.09

(ii)

Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss.................................................

(3.72)

(1.28)

Total other comprehensive income/(loss).....................................................................................................................................

(74.24)

76.26

Total comprehensive income for the year....................................................................................................................................

6,474.40

4,946.14

Earnings per equity share:
(Face value Rs. 5/- per share) (Rupees)
Basic................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

34

54.70

40.73

Diluted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

34

54.49

40.58

The accompanying notes 1 to 46 are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

—
—
—

—
—
—
—

—
—
—
0.08
—
—
—
—
(0.17)
0.00

Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)..........................

Total Comprehensive Income for the year.....

Dividend paid on Equity Shares...................................

Exercise of employee stock options...........................

Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
Trust to Employees...............................................................

On account of employee stock options lapsed.....

Share based payment to employees..........................

Transfer to retained earnings......................................

Shares allotted...........................................................................

As at 31 March, 2023....................................................

528.30

—

2,724.36

—

1,746.40

—

—

—

4.04

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,742.36

50.64

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

50.64

260.33

—

111.57

(4.04)

—

(78.18)

—

—

—

—

230.98

37,478.03

—

7.48

—

—

—

—

(1,435.89)

6,455.80

(92.84)

6,548.64

32,450.64

Retained
Earnings

(1.86)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1.40)

(1.40)

—

(0.46)

Debt
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income

(35.68)

—

(7.48)

—

—

—

—

—

7.55

7.55

—

(35.75)

Equity
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income

Total

7.16

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

12.45

12.45

—

42,757.68

(0.17)

—

111.57

—

(0.30)

8.32

(1,435.89)

6,474.40

(74.24)

6,548.64

(5.29) 37,599.75

Effective
portion of
Cash Flow
Hedges
[Note 38.1.(c)]

Items of other comprehensive income

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

—

—

—

(0.30)

86.42

—

—

—

—

2,638.24

Share
Option
Outstanding
Account

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

st

—

—

Profit for the year...................................................................

—

528.30

Debenture
Redemption
Reserve

Rupees crores

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

0.09

General
Reserve
(refer note b)

Reserves and Surplus

0.91

597.39

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

As at 1st April, 2022...........................................................

Securities
Premium
(refer note a)

Balance as at the end of the year............................................................................................

Capital
Reserve

0.17
599.05

Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement.......................................................

Share
Pending
Issuance

0.58

Add: Allotment of shares by M&M ESOP Trust to Employees...............................

BOARD’S
REPORT

(B) Other Equity

—
598.30

598.30

Restated balance....................................................................................................................................

—

—

Changes in equity share capital due to prior period error.......................................

597.39

2022

598.30

2023

Rupees crores

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

Balance as at the beginning of the year..............................................................................

Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up :...........................................................................................

(A) Equity Share Capital

Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, 2023

239
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

—
—
0.09

Share based payment to employees........................

As at 31st March, 2022....................................................
2,638.24

—

—

(0.45)

119.87

—

—

—

—

—

4.83

2,513.99

Securities
Premium
(refer note a)

1,742.36

—

3.10

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1,739.26

General
Reserve
(refer note b)

50.64

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

50.64

Debenture
Redemption
Reserve

Reserves and Surplus

230.98

86.48

(3.10)

—

(117.20)

—

—

—

—

—

9.91

254.88

Share
Option
Outstanding
Account

32,450.64

—

—

—

—

(50.76)

(1,087.79)

4,972.77

102.88

4,869.89

(847.27)

29,463.69

Retained
Earnings

(650.27)

86.48

—

(0.45)

2.71

(50.67)

(1,087.79)

4,946.13

76.24

4,869.89

Securities premium: Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The fair value of employee stock options is recognised in Securities Premium once the shares have been allotted on exercise of
the options.

General reserve: General reserve comprises of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. The reserve can be distributed/utilised by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013.

(iii)

th

Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)

Narayan Shankar

Manoj Bhat

Rajesh Jejurikar

Anish Shah

Anand G. Mahindra

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Group Chief Financial Officer

Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) (DIN - 00046823)

Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

Mumbai, 26 May, 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No : 113156

For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022

In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

(b)	The share capital of the Company has also been reduced and the securities premium increased by Rs. 11.36 crores (2022: Rs. 11.65 crores) for the 2,27,05,303 bonus shares of Rs. 5 each (2022: 2,32,95,650 bonus shares of
Rs. 5 each) issued by the Company in December, 2017 to the M&M ESOP Trust but not yet transferred by the M&M ESOP Trust to the employees.

(a)	The Company has reduced the share capital by Rs. 11.36 crores (2022: Rs. 11.65 crores) and securities premium by Rs. 182.94 crores (2022: Rs. 182.94 crores) for the 2,27,05,304 shares of Rs. 5 each (2022: 2,32,95,651
shares of Rs. 5 each) held by the M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees.

Notes:

(vi)	Share option outstanding account: Share option outstanding account represents reserve in respect of equity settled share options granted to the Company’s employees in pursuance of the Employee Stock Option Plan.

(v)	Debenture redemption reserve: Debenture redemption reserve is a statutory reserve (as per Companies Act, 2013) created out of profits of the Company available for payment of dividend for the purpose of redemption of
Debentures issued by the Company. On completion of redemption, the reserve is transferred to retained earnings.

(iv)	Retained earnings: Retained earnings comprises of accumulated balance of profits/(losses) of current and prior years including transfers made to / from other reserves from time to time. The reserve can be utilized or distributed
by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.

Capital reserve: Capital reserve mainly represents the amount of net assets acquired over and above consideration paid consequent to the scheme of arrangement.

(5.29) 37,599.75

—

—

—

—

—

—

4.56

4.56

—

—

(9.85) 34,353.61

Total

(i)

(35.75)

—

—

—

—

0.09

—

(30.44)

(30.44)

—

—

(5.40)

Effective
portion of
Cash Flow
Hedges
[Note 34.1.(c)]

Rupees crores

(ii)

Description of the nature and purpose of Other Equity:

The accompanying notes 1 to 46 are an integral part of the Financial Statements.

(C)

(0.46)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(0.76)

(0.76)

—

—

0.30

Equity
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income

Items of other comprehensive income
Debt
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income

Remeasurement loss (net) on defined benefit plans Rs. 92.85 crores (2022 : Gain of Rs. 102.88 crores) has been recognised during the year as part of retained earnings.

528.30

—

—

—

—

On account of employee stock options lapsed...

—

Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
Trust to Employees ............................................................

—

Dividend paid on Equity Shares (including tax
thereon) ......................................................................................

—

—

—

—

Total Comprehensive Income for the year.....

0.03

—

Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)..........................

—

182.20

Exercise of employee stock options...........................

—

—

0.06

Profit for the year...................................................................

346.10

Capital
Reserve

Transfer to retained earning ........................................

—

Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note 44 (B)] ...............................................................

Share
Pending
Issuance

As at 1st April, 2021...........................................................

(B) Other Equity (contd.)

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

240

241

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Cash Flow Statement | for the year ended 31st March, 2023
Rupees crores

A.

2023

2022
[Refer note
44 (B)]

9,560.32

6,356.65

3,154.46

2,498.39

CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Profit before exceptional items and tax.............................................................................................................................................................................
Adjustments for:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense...........................................................................................................................................
Gain on foreign exchange fluctuations (net)..............................................................................................................................................................

(58.74)

(95.70)

Dividend on investment and interest income............................................................................................................................................................

(1,988.05)

(1,720.95)

Gain arising on financial assets/ liabilities measured at Fair Value through profit or loss (net)..........................................

(304.30)

(182.64)

Finance costs ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

272.78

226.18

Share based payment expenses..........................................................................................................................................................................................

106.63

80.47

(Profit)/Loss on property, plant and equipment sold/scrapped/written off (net).............................................................................

(62.97)

21.50

1,119.81

827.25

10,680.13

7,183.90

Trade and other receivables...................................................................................................................................................................................................

(2,197.80)

(1,401.85)

Operating profit before working capital changes.........................................................................................................................................................
Changes in:

B.

Inventories..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(3,083.66)

(1,136.94)

Trade and other payables and provisions.....................................................................................................................................................................

5,668.58

2,930.05

387.12

391.26

Cash generated from operations.............................................................................................................................................................................................

11,067.25

7,575.16

Income taxes paid (net of refunds and interest on refunds)..............................................................................................................................

(1,937.95)

(598.43)

NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (A).........................................................................................................................................

9,129.30

6,976.73

(4,354.23)

(3,348.95)

CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment and intangible assets............................................................................................
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets........................................................................................

922.96

57.40

Payments to acquire non-current investments - subsidiaries.............................................................................................................................

(3,144.37)

(608.56)

Payments to acquire non-current investments - associates................................................................................................................................

—

(16.07)

Payments to acquire non-current investments - joint ventures.......................................................................................................................

(10.20)

(129.00)

Payments to acquire other non-current investments..............................................................................................................................................

—

(3.33)

Proceeds from sale of other non current investments...........................................................................................................................................

47.13

4.04

Payments to acquire current investments........................................................................................................................................................................

(35,880.17)

(49,204.85)

Proceeds from sale of current investments....................................................................................................................................................................

34,607.61

46,224.29

Share application money paid....................................................................................................................................................................................................

—

(62.27)

Changes in earmarked balances and margin accounts with banks................................................................................................................

(0.09)

25.84

Bank deposits placed ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(3,677.75)

(4,262.02)

Bank deposits matured...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,452.44

6,422.12

Interest received..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

305.63

361.77

Dividends received..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,607.14

1,363.02

Receivables/Loans/Inter-corporate deposits given......................................................................................................................................................

(1,332.41)

(1,655.18)

Receivables/Loans/Inter-corporate deposits refunded.............................................................................................................................................

1,590.11

311.63

Exceptional Items :
	Proceeds from sale of non current investments in subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures ..........................................

1,112.72

556.53

NET CASH FLOW USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (B).....................................................................................................................................

(4,753.48)

(3,963.59)

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

242

Cash Flow Statement (contd.)
Rupees crores

C.

2023

2022
[Refer note
44 (B)]

Proceeds from issue of equity instruments.....................................................................................................................................................................

8.33

3.32

Proceeds from borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

—

966.61

Repayment of borrowings.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

(1,861.43)

(2,514.72)

Repayment of lease liabilities (including interest).......................................................................................................................................................

(113.79)

(49.73)

Dividends paid........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(1,435.86)

(1,089.06)

Interest, commitment and finance charges paid...........................................................................................................................................................

(381.00)

(482.40)

NET CASH FLOW USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES (C).....................................................................................................................................

(3,783.75)

(3,165.98)

NET INCREASE/ (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (A+B+C)...................................................................................

592.07

(152.84)

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year.............................................................................................................................

717.26

867.54

Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)]....................................................................................................................

—

2.47

Unrealised gain / (loss) on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents....................................................................................................

0.78

0.08

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [Refer Note 14 (a)]..........................................................................................

1,310.11

717.26

CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Note:
1 	The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the “indirect method” as set out in ‘Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7 - Statement of
Cash Flows’.
The accompanying notes 1 to 46 are an integral part of the Financial Statements.
In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

243

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Notes forming part of the Financial Statements | for the period ended 31st March, 2023
1.

General Information

	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (‘the Company’) is a limited company incorporated in India. The addresses of its registered office and principal activities of
the Company are disclosed in the introduction to the Annual Report.
	The Ordinary (Equity) shares of the Company are listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”) in India. The
Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) of the Company are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and are also admitted for trading on International
Order Book (IOB) of the London Stock Exchange.
2.

Significant Accounting Policies:
(a)

Statement of compliance and basis of preparation and presentation

		These standalone or separate financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards as per the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and other
relevant provisions of the Act.
		These standalone or separate financial statements were approved by the Company’s Board of Directors and authorised for issue on
26th May, 2023.
(b)

Basis of measurement

		The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments which are measured at
fair values.
(c)

Measurement of fair values

		A number of Company’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets and
liabilities. The Company has established policies and procedures with respect to the measurement of fair values.
		Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows:
		

—

		

—	Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.

		

—

(d)

Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

Use of estimates and judgments

		The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, that affect
the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses at the date of these financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the years presented. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
		Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised and future periods affected.
		Key sources of estimation uncertainty at the date of financial statements, which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities within the next financial year, is in respect of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, provision for product
warranties, fair value of financial assets/liabilities and impairment of investments.
		The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year are discussed below:
		

(i)

Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets

			The Company reviews the useful lives of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets at the end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in depreciation and amortisation expense in future periods.
		

(ii)

Provision for product warranties

			The Company recognises provision for warranties in respect of the products that it sells. Provisions are discounted, where necessary, to its
present value based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. These are reviewed at each balance
sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
		

(iii)

Fair value of financial assets and liabilities and investments

			The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities on fair value basis at each balance sheet date or at the time they are assessed
for impairment. Fair value measurement that are based on significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) requires estimates of operating margin,
discount rate, future growth rate, terminal values, etc. based on management’s best estimate about future developments.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

244

Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)

		

(iv) Impairment of investments

			The Company assesses impairment of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are recorded at cost. At the time when
there are any indications that such investments have suffered a loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss. The recoverable
amount requires estimates of operating margin, discount rate, future growth rate, terminal values, etc. based on management’s best estimate.
(e)

Property, plant and equipment

		Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment,
if any.
		Cost includes financing cost relating to borrowed funds attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying tangible assets upto the date
the assets are ready for use.
		Depreciation is provided on straight-line basis for property, plant and equipment so as to expense the depreciable amount, i.e. the cost less
estimated residual value, over its estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and the effect of any
changes in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis.
		When an asset is scrapped or otherwise disposed off, the cost and related depreciation are removed from the books of account and resultant profit
or loss, if any, is reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
		The management’s estimate of useful lives are in accordance with Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, other than the following asset classes,
based on the Company’s expected usage pattern supported by technical assessment:

(f)
		

Asset Class

Useful lives

(i)

Certain items of Plant and Equipment

2 - 25 years as the case may be.

(ii)

Buildings (Roads)

15 years

(iii)

Vehicles

5 years

Intangible assets
Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.

		Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis so as to reflect the pattern in which the asset’s economic benefits
are consumed.
		

Intangible assets under development

		The Company expenses costs incurred during research phase to profit or loss in the year in which they are incurred. Development phase expenses
are initially recognised as intangible assets under development until the development phase is complete, upon which the amount is capitalised as
intangible asset.
		Intangible assets
		

i)

Technical Knowhow

			The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit, commencing with the year of purchase of the technology.
		

ii)

Development Expenditure

			The expenditure incurred on technical services and other project/product related expenses are amortised over the estimated period of benefit,
not exceeding 60 months.
		

iii)

Brand license fee

			

The expenditure incurred is amortised over the period of relevant licence fee or the estimated period of benefit, whichever is lower.

		

Software Expenditure

iv)

			The expenditure incurred is amortised over three financial years equally commencing from the year in which the expenditure is incurred.
		

v)

			

Others
The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit.

			The amortisation period for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed annually and changes in expected useful lives are treated
as changes in estimates.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

245

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)
(g) Impairment of assets

		At the end of each reporting period, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant & equipment, intangible assets and investments
in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any
such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use or fair value less cost to sell, of the asset or cash-generating
unit, as the case may be, is estimated and impairment loss (if any) is recognised and the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. In
assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been
adjusted. When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
		When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate
of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) earlier.
		Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and
whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
(h)

Inventories

		Inventories comprise all costs of purchase, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
		Raw materials and bought out components are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the basis of the weighted
average method.
		Finished goods produced, stock in trade, manufactured components and work-in-progress are carried at cost or net realisable value whichever
is lower.
		Stores, spares and tools other than obsolete and slow moving items are carried at cost. Obsolete and slow moving items are valued at cost or
estimated net realisable value, whichever is lower.
(i)

Foreign exchange transactions and translation

		Transactions in foreign currencies i.e. other than the Company’s functional currency of Indian Rupees are recognised at the rates of exchange
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated
at the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value is determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms
of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period
in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions entered into in order to hedge certain foreign currency risks (refer policy on
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting).
(j)	Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
		
(k)

The Company accounts for its equity investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment, if any.
Financial instruments

		Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition
or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are
added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately
in profit or loss. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price.
		

Classification and subsequent measurement

		Financial assets
		All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or
sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention
in the marketplace. All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their
respective classification.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

246

Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)

		

On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as - measured at:

		

—

Amortised cost; or

		

—

Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - debt investment; or

		

—

Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - equity investment; or

		

—

Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (FVTPL)

		Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition, except if and in the period the Company changes its business model
for managing financial assets.
		All financial assets not classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets
unless designated as effective hedge instruments which are accounted as per hedge accounting requirements discussed below.
		Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured at amortised cost using effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced
by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment expenses are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain and
loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss.
		The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the
relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees paid or received
that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the
debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
		Debt investment at FVTOCI are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income under effective interest method, foreign exchange gains
and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Other net gains and losses are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). On
derecognition, gains and losses accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
		For equity investments other than investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, the Company makes an election on an
instrument-by-instrument basis to designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. These elected investments are measured at fair
value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the reserves.
The cumulative gain or loss is not reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the investments. These equity investments are not held for
trading. Dividend income received on such equity investments are recognised in profit or loss.
		Equity investments that are not designated to be measured at Cost or FVTOCI are designated to be measured at FVTPL. Subsequent changes
in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
		

Financial liabilities and equity instruments

		Debt and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the
contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
		Equity instruments
		An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity
instruments issued by the Company is recognised at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
		Financial liabilities
		Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as
held-for-trading or it is a derivative (that does not meet hedge accounting requirements) or it is designated as such on initial recognition. Other
financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Interest expense and foreign exchange gains
and losses are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss.
		

Derecognition of financial assets

		The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the
rights to receive the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another party. If the Company neither
transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Company recognises
its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for the amount it may have to pay.
		If the Company enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognised on its balance sheet, but retains either all or substantially all
of the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are not derecognised and the proceeds received are recognised as a
collateralised borrowing.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

247

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)

		

Offsetting

		Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Company currently
has a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the
liability simultaneously.
		

Financial guarantee contracts

		A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because
a specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
		Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are initially measured at their fair values and, if not designated as at FVTPL, are subsequently
measured at the higher of:
		

•

the amount of loss allowance determined in accordance with impairment requirements of Ind AS 109; and

		

•	the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of
Ind AS 115.

		

Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting

		The Company enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to manage its
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts that are not financial assets within the
scope of Ind AS 109 are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
		Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the
end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective
as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the
nature of the hedged item.
		The Company designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or
cash flow hedges. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
		At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Company documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and
on an ongoing basis, the Company documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows
of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
		Changes in fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in profit or loss immediately, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
		The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other
comprehensive income and accumulated under hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the
profit or loss.
		Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (relating to effective portion as described above) are
reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
		Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss
accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
		

Impairment of financial assets

		The Company applies the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for recognising impairment loss on financial assets. With respect to trade receivables
and loans, the Company measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses.
		Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets. For debt securities at
FVTOCI, the loss allowance is recognised in OCI and is not reduced from the carrying amount of the financial asset in the balance sheet.
		The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This
is generally the case when the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash
flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities under
the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

248

Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)
(l)

		

Revenue Recognition
Sale of goods or services

		The Company recognises revenue from sale of goods or services at the amount of transaction price (excluding variable consideration that is
constrained), that is allocated to the performance obligation satisfied. Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Company
expects it to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. An
amount of consideration can vary because of discounts, rebates, incentives etc. which are explicitly stated in the contract or are as per customary
business practices. The consideration can also vary where the entitlement is contingent on occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event. The
Company includes variable consideration as part of transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Variable consideration is estimated using the expected value method or the most likely amount depending on which method the Company expects
to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled and is applied consistently throughout the contract.
		Payment terms agreed with a customer are as per business practice and the financing component, if significant, is separated from the transaction
price and accounted as interest income.
		

Dividend and interest income

		

Dividend from investments are recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive payment is established.

		Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the amount of
income can be measured reliably.
(m) Government Grants
		The Company, directly or indirectly through a consortium of Mahindra Group Companies, is entitled to various incentives from government authorities
in respect of manufacturing units located in developing regions. The Company accounts for its entitlement as income on accrual basis.
		Government grants that are revenue in nature, are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Company
recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.
		The benefit of a government loan at a below market-rate of interest is treated as government grant and is measured as the difference between
proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on prevailing market interest rates.
(n)
		

Employee Benefits
Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund

		The Company’s contribution paid / payable during the year to Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund are recognised in profit or loss.
		Provident Fund
		Contributions to Provident Fund are made to a Trust administered by the Company/Regional Provident Fund Commissioners and are charged to
profit or loss as incurred. The Company is liable for the contribution and any shortfall in interest between the amount of income realised by the
investments and the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India in respect of the Trust administered by the
Company. The shortfall and remeasurement thereof, if any, based on actuarial valuation is recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI).
		

Long term Compensated Absences

		Company’s liability towards long term compensated absences are determined by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
		

Gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes

		Company’s liability towards gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes are determined by independent
actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. Past services are recognised at the earlier of the plan amendment/curtailment and the recognition
of related restructuring costs/termination benefits.
		The obligation on long term compensated absences and defined benefit plans are measured at the present value of estimated future cash flows
using a discount rate that is determined by reference to the market yields at the balance sheet date on government bonds where the currency
and terms of the government bonds are consistent with the currency and estimated terms of the obligation.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

249

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)

		Remeasurement gains/losses
		Remeasurement of defined benefit plans, comprising of actuarial gains or losses, return on plan assets excluding interest income are recognised
immediately in balance sheet with corresponding debit or credit to other comprehensive income. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or
loss in subsequent period.
		Remeasurement gains or losses on long term compensated absences that are classified as other long term benefits are recognised in profit or loss.
		

Share based payments

		Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the
Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity.
(o)

Borrowing Costs

		Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take
a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Interest income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit
or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
(p)

Income taxes

		Current tax
		Current tax is determined as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable income for the year. The Company’s current tax is calculated using
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
		Deferred tax
		Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying values of assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the
manner in which the Company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
		Deferred tax assets including that on unused tax losses and unused tax credits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
income will be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
		Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
		The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
		

Current and deferred tax for the year

		Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or
directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the
business combination.
(q)

Provisions

		Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Company
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is
the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount
is the present value of these cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material).
		Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations are recognised at the time of sale of the relevant products, at the best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the Company’s obligation.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

250

Significant Accounting Policies: (contd.)
(r)

Business Combination

		Business Combination under common control are accounted under “the pooling of interest method” i.e. in accordance with Appendix C in Ind AS 103 Business combinations, at carrying amount of assets and liabilities acquired and any excess of consideration issued over the net assets acquired is
recognised as capital reserve on common control business combination.
(s)

Leases

		The Company evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116 and this may require significant judgment.
The Company also uses significant judgement in assessing the lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the applicable discount rate.
		The Company determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both periods covered by an option to extend or
terminate the lease if the Company is reasonably certain based on relevant facts and circumstances that the option to extend or terminate will be
exercised. If there is a change in facts and circumstances, the expected lease term is revised accordingly.
		The discount rate is generally based on the interest rate specific to the lease being evaluated or if that cannot be easily determined the incremental
borrowing rate for similar term is used.
		The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of
12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a
straight-line basis over the lease term.
		

The Company as a lessee

		The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus
any initial direct costs incurred and restoration cost, less any lease incentives received.
		The right-of-use assets are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. In
addition, the right-of-use asset is reduced by impairment losses, if any.
		The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost at the present value of the future lease payments. When a lease liability is remeasured,
the corresponding adjustment of the lease liability is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
(t)

Non-current assets held for sale

		Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. To classify as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, its sale must
be highly probable and is marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. The Group must also be committed to
the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. Non-current assets
and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
3.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
 inistry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
M
Rules as issued from time to time. On March 31, 2023, MCA amended the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the Companies
(Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023, applicable from April 1st, 2023, as below:
1)	
Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements: The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting policies rather than
their significant accounting policies. Accounting policy information, together with other information included in an entity’s financial statements, is
material when it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions of primary users of general purpose financial statements. The Company does
not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
2)	Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors: The amendments will help entities to distinguish between
accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition of a change in accounting estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting
estimates. Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to measurement
uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in financial statements to be measured in a way that involves
measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
3)	Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes: The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and decommissioning
obligations. The amendments narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 and 24 of Ind AS 12 (recognition exemption) so
that it no longer applies to transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary differences. The Company
does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

251

4.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment comprise of owned and leased assets that do not meet the definition of Investment property.
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

(a) Property, plant and equipment (owned).........................................................................................................................................................................

12,086.69

11,489.38

(b) Right of use assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

963.43

753.54

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

13,050.12

12,242.92

(a)

Property, plant and equipment (owned)
Rupees crores

Particulars

Land –
Freehold

Furniture
and
Fixtures

Aircraft

193.29

247.28

57.22
—

Buildings Plant and
Office
Equipment Equipment

Balance as at 1st April, 2021.........................................

273.57

Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note 44 (B)] ..............................................................

8.36

40.71

207.00

2.75

2.10

Additions/Transfer from CWIP during the year......

59.33

806.66

2,790.61

12.72

11.70

Disposals/Transfer during the year ..............................

3.07

3.08

208.86

4.75

5.70

3,455.73 16,326.97

Vehicles

Total

468.30 21,022.36
15.31

276.23

—

27.16

3,708.18

—

76.74

302.20

Balance as at 31 March, 2022..................................

338.19

4,300.02 19,115.72

204.01

255.38

57.22

434.03 24,704.57

Balance as at 1st April, 2022.........................................

338.19

4,300.02 19,115.72

204.01

255.38

57.22

434.03 24,704.57

st

Additions/Transfer from CWIP during the year......

5.55

235.30

2,661.78

17.61

8.60

—

24.83

2,953.67

Disposals during the year.....................................................

12.95

35.05

169.64

6.10

10.28

—

89.49

323.51

47.18

1.14

550.26

Reclassified as held for sale................................................

6.84

492.87

0.99

1.22

—

Balance as at 31st March, 2023..................................

323.95

4,453.09 21,114.99

214.53

252.48

57.22

368.23 26,784.47

Balance as at 1st April, 2021.........................................

—

999.75 10,187.31

155.10

181.91

43.45

281.99 11,849.51

Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note 44 (B)] ..............................................................

—

7.61

93.69

1.72

1.12

—

12.20

116.34

Depreciation expense for the year.................................

—

120.75

1,293.07

11.39

14.14

2.63

63.88

1,505.86

Disposals/Transfer during the year ..............................

—

1.58

183.80

4.53

5.29

—

62.78

257.98

Impairment during the year $............................................

—

—

1.15

—

—

—

0.31

1.46

Balance as at 31 March, 2022..................................

—

1,126.53 11,391.42

163.68

191.88

46.08

295.60 13,215.19

Balance as at 1 April, 2022.........................................

—

1,126.53 11,391.42

163.68

191.88

46.08

295.60 13,215.19

Depreciation expense for the year.................................

—

139.80

1,536.22

12.88

12.52

2.63

48.59

1,752.64

Impairment during the year #............................................

—

—

321.17

0.46

0.59

—

5.51

327.73

Accumulated depreciation & impairment

st

st

Disposals during the year.....................................................

—

26.11

144.90

5.86

9.44

—

74.70

261.01

Reclassified as held for sale................................................

—

14.80

320.19

0.63

1.01

—

0.14

336.77

Balance as at 31st March, 2023..................................

—

1,225.42 12,783.72

170.53

194.54

48.71

274.86 14,697.78

Net carrying amount
Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2022........

338.19

3,173.49

7,724.30

40.33

63.50

11.14

138.43 11,489.38

Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2023.

323.95

3,227.67

8,331.27

44.00

57.94

8.51

93.37 12,086.69

Notes:
a.

Additions during the year includes borrowing costs capitalised Rs. 162.27 crores (2022 : Rs. 41.52 crores).

b.

Buildings include Rs. * crores (2022 : Rs. * crores) being the value of shares in co-operative housing societies.

$

Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as depreciation, amortisation and Impairment expenses.

#

Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.[Refer Note 33]

*

denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

4.

252

Property, Plant and Equipment (contd.)
(b)

Right of use assets

Rupees crores
Land

Buildings

Others
(refer note
below)

Total

Balance as at 1st April, 2021............................................................................................................

415.45

77.83

106.90

600.18

Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)] .............................

36.84

—

—

36.84

Additions during the year ......................................................................................................................

95.95

13.08

144.51

253.54

Deductions during the year ..................................................................................................................

—

12.32

0.45

12.77

Particulars

Cost

Balance as at 31st March, 2022.....................................................................................................

548.24

78.59

250.96

877.79

Balance as at 1st April, 2022 .........................................................................................................

548.24

78.59

250.96

877.79

Additions during the year ......................................................................................................................

100.26

44.96

178.41

323.63

Deductions during the year ..................................................................................................................

—

7.56

8.10

15.66

Balance as at 31 March, 2023.....................................................................................................

648.50

115.99

421.27

1,185.76

Balance as at 1st April, 2021............................................................................................................

10.16

37.95

33.32

81.43

Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)] .............................

0.75

—

—

0.75

Amortisation expense for the year...................................................................................................

6.50

17.75

28.37

52.62

st

Accumulated amortisation

Deductions during the year ..................................................................................................................

—

10.41

0.14

10.55

Balance as at 31st March, 2022.....................................................................................................

17.41

45.29

61.55

124.25

Balance as at 1st April, 2022 .........................................................................................................

17.41

45.29

61.55

124.25

Amortisation expense for the year...................................................................................................

8.37

26.99

69.97

105.33

Deductions during the year....................................................................................................................

—

7.33

4.88

12.21

Impairment during the year #...............................................................................................................

—

—

4.96

4.96

Balance as at 31 March, 2023.....................................................................................................

25.78

64.95

131.60

222.33

Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2022 .........................................................................

530.83

33.30

189.41

753.54

Net carrying amount as at 31 March, 2023 ..................................................................

622.72

51.04

289.67

963.43

st

Net carrying amount
st

Note:
Others include Plant & Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture & Fixtures.
#
5.

Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items. [Refer Note 33]

Capital-work-in-progress (CWIP)
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Opening Balance
Additions during the year...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Addition during the year - due to interest capitalisation............................................................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)].........................................................................................................................
Total Additions during the year...............................................................................................................................................................................................

1,624.27
2,308.18
39.49
—
2,347.67

2,891.23
2,199.19
117.35
124.74
2,441.28

Deletions during the year
Transfer to property, plant and equipment...........................................................................................................................................................................
Deletions during the year..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Impairment during the year #.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Deletions during the year...............................................................................................................................................................................................

2,952.78
0.19
11.33
57.38
3,021.68

3,708.21
0.03
—
—
3,708.24

Closing Balance......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

950.27

1,624.27

Cost

253

5.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) (contd.)
Ageing of capital work in progress

Rupees crores

Particulars

Amount in CWIP for a period of

As at 31st March, 2023:
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
(a) Projects temporarily suspended : Exceeded cost or overdue............................
(b) Projects temporarily suspended : Other than covered in above (a).............
Total........................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, 2022:
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
(a) Projects temporarily suspended : Exceeded cost or overdue............................
(b) Projects temporarily suspended : Other than covered in above (a).............
Total .....................................................................................................................................................................

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

721.25
—
—
721.25

127.15
—
—
127.15

29.82
—
—
29.82

72.05
—
—
72.05

950.27
—
—
950.27

1,019.01
—
—
1,019.01

325.74
—
—
325.74

237.09
—
—
237.09

42.43
—
—
42.43

1,624.27
—
—
1,624.27

# Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.[Refer Note 33]
6.

Intangible Assets
Particulars

Rupees crores
Development
Expenditure
(Internally
Generated)

Brand
Licences

Computer
Software

Others
(refer note b)

Total

5,405.68

134.05

81.49

68.10

5,689.32

241.40

—

25.66

—

267.06

1,221.89
1,180.95
5,688.02
5,688.02

—
—
134.05
134.05

5.51
7.95
104.71
104.71

—
—
68.10
68.10

1,227.40
1,188.90
5,994.88
5,994.88

2,950.61
571.95
119.97
7,946.71

—
—
—
134.05

21.06
16.87
14.29
94.61

1.33
—
—
69.43

2,973.00
588.82
134.26
8,244.80

3,266.67

25.72

74.05

3.18

3,369.62

202.99
919.64
1,180.94
0.32
3,208.68
3,208.68
1,249.79
372.75
571.95
62.72
4,196.55

—
4.31
—
—
30.03
30.03
4.31
—
—
—
34.34

14.73
11.08
7.95
—
91.91
91.91
14.24
0.46
16.87
5.18
84.56

—
0.04
—
—
3.22
3.22
0.04
—
—
—
3.26

217.72
935.07
1,188.89
0.32
3,333.84
3,333.84
1,268.39
373.21
588.82
67.90
4,318.72

2,479.34
3,750.16

104.02
99.71

12.80
10.05

64.88
66.17

2,661.04
3,926.08

Cost
Balance as at 1st April, 2021...................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note 44 (B)] ............................................................................................
Additions/Transfer from Intangibles assets under
development during the year.......................................................................
Deductions/Transfer during the year ....................................................
Balance as at 31st March, 2022 ..........................................................
Balance as at 1st April, 2022 ................................................................
Additions/Transfer from Intangibles under
development during the year.......................................................................
Deductions during the year...........................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale..........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, 2023 ..........................................................
Accumulated amortisation & impairment
Balance as at 1st April, 2021...................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note 44 (B)]..............................................................................................
Amortisation expense for the year..........................................................
Deductions/Transfer during the year......................................................
Impairment during the year $......................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, 2022............................................................
Balance as at 1st April, 2022...................................................................
Amortisation expense for the year..........................................................
Impairment during the year #......................................................................
Deductions during the year...........................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale..........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, 2023............................................................
Net carrying amount
Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2022..................................
Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2023...........................

Notes:a. Additions during the year includes Borrowing costs capitalised Rs. 72.21 crores (2022 : Rs. 70.25 crores).
b. Others include trade marks, transferable development rights etc.
$
Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as depreciation, amortisation and impairment expenses
#
Impairment losses are recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items. [Refer Note 33]

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

7.

Intangible assets under development

254

Rupees crores

Particulars
Opening Balance....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Additions during the year
Addition during the period.................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Addition during the period - due to Interest Capitalisation.......................................................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)].........................................................................................................................
Total Additions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deletions during the year
Transfer to Intangible Asset.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deletion during the year.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Impairment during the year #.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Deletions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Closing Balance......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2023

2022

3,638.47

3,234.23

1,944.14
143.00
—
2,087.15

1,289.89
176.58
164.23
1,630.70

2,950.60
750.79
38.65
151.23
3,891.27
1,834.35

1,221.89
1.51
—
3.06
1,226.46
3,638.47

Ageing of intangible assets under development

Rupees crores

Particulars

Amount in Intangible assets under development for a period of

As at 31st March, 2023:
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
Total .....................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, 2022:
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
Total .....................................................................................................................................................................

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

599.91
599.91

550.53
550.53

220.85
220.85

463.05
463.05

1,834.35
1,834.35

1,357.75
1,357.75

665.69
665.69

856.91
856.91

758.12
758.12

3,638.47
3,638.47

# Out of impairment losses recognised in the statement of profit and loss, Rs. 123.13 crores (2022: Rs. Nil) and Rs. 28.10 crores (2022: Rs. 3.06 crores)
has been recognised in exceptional items and depreciation, amortisation and impairment expenses, respectively .
8.

Investments
A.

Non-current investments

Particulars

Investments in Equity Instruments (fully paid-up)
Quoted
(A) At Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
Equity shares
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited...................
Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited...........................................................
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited..........................
Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited...................................
Mahindra Logistics Limited....................................................................
Swaraj Engines Limited **.........................................................................
(ii)

Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees)

2023

2022

Number

Rupees
crores

Number

Rupees
crores

2
10
10
10
10
10

64,43,99,987
1,51,44,433
13,48,35,922
7,93,19,550
4,18,12,257
63,31,141

2,846.87
77.75
24.72
440.28
41.81
322.29
3,753.72

64,43,99,987
1,51,44,433
13,48,35,922
7,93,19,550
4,18,12,257
—

2,846.87
77.75
24.72
440.28
41.81
—
3,431.43

10
5
10

—
24,80,22,598
1,21,22,068

—
971.75
306.28

42,16,792
24,80,22,598
4,33,44,512

26.28
971.75
1,095.16

In Associate Companies
Equity shares
Swaraj Engines Limited **...............................................................
Tech Mahindra Limited......................................................................
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited @......................................

1,278.03

2,093.19

255

8.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars

(B) Designated and carried at FVTPL
In Other Companies
SsangYong Motor Company ##............................................................
(C) Designated and carried at FVTOCI
In Other Companies
Equity shares..................................................................................................

Unquoted
(A) At Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
Equity shares
Gromax Agri Equipment Limited............................................
Kota Farm Services Limited......................................................
Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited.............................
Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited............................................
Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary)
Limited......................................................................................................
Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited.................
Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited #.............................
Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited...............................
Mahindra Construction Company Limited.......................
Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited...........................
Mahindra Defence Systems Limited....................................
Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda.(quotas)...................
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited...............................
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited [Including
169,44,44,445 partly paid Equity shares of Face
Value Rs.10 each partly paid to Re.1 each)..................
Mahindra eMarket Limited.........................................................
Mahindra Holdings Limited........................................................
Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius)
Limited
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
– Ordinary shares..............................................................................
Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services
Private Limited...................................................................................
Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l.:
– Class A shares.................................................................................
– Class B shares................................................................................
– Class C shares.................................................................................
– Class D shares................................................................................
Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited............................................
Mahindra USA Inc.
– Class A shares.................................................................................
– Class B shares................................................................................
Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited..............

Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees)

2023
Number

Rupees
crores

Number

2022
Rupees
crores

KRW 5,000

1,25,36,341

172.14

11,18,55,108

—

1.29
1.29
5,205.18

1.22
1.22
5,525.84

10
10
10
10

59,73,218
2,73,420
35,000
9,30,32,599

4.29
—
0.04
367.33

59,73,218
2,73,420
35,000
9,30,32,599

4.29
—
0.04
367.33

ZAR 1
AUD 1

5,20,00,000
45,75,000

28.54
21.16

5,20,00,000
45,75,000

28.54
21.16

1,075.42
13,30,05,001
735.54 3,65,36,06,54,761
1,106.96
—
—
4,20,001
—
9,00,000
—
11,51,000
292.95
1,67,23,655
97.80
6,09,10,950
1,300.05
—

1,075.42
474.36
—
3.57
—
1.25
292.95
97.80
—

EUR 1
13,30,05,001
NA 1,10,50,23,98,69,39,88,000
10
91,23,89,607
BDT 100
—
10
9,00,000
10
—
10
1,67,23,655
BRL 1
6,09,10,950
10
1,30,00,50,000
10
10
10

1,69,44,44,445
3,59,865
2,70,53,71,700

169.44
0.02
2,705.37

—
3,59,865
2,46,34,99,450

—
0.02
2,463.50

US $ 1
NA

30,14,29,209
38,60,43,477

1,893.69
1,017.97

30,14,29,209
38,60,43,477

1,893.69
1,017.97

10

6,94,35,200

69.44

5,60,50,000

56.05

EUR 1
EUR 0.05
EUR 0.03
EUR 0.02
0.02

1,49,00,000
1,60,00,00,000
53,33,33,300
1,65,00,00,000
41,22,50,37,146

188.71
633.90
135.16
286.35
433.73

1,49,00,000
1,60,00,00,000
53,33,33,300
1,65,00,00,000
41,22,50,37,146

188.71
633.90
135.16
286.35
433.73

US $ 0.25
US $ 0.16
10

45,60,00,000
67,25,00,000
3,00,00,000

755.08
795.94
29.71

45,60,00,000
67,25,00,000
2,62,15,842

755.08
795.94
26.22

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

8.

256

Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars

Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly known as
Mahindra Intertrade Limited) [including 1,50,00,000
shares of Face value of Rs. 10 Each partly paid-up
Rs.3 per share]...................................................................................
Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited..........................................
Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private
Limited.....................................................................................................
Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co.,
Limited :
– Equity share.....................................................................................
– Class A shares.................................................................................
M.I.T.R.A. Agro Equipments Private Limited#.................
NBS International Limited..........................................................
Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited......................
Sampo Rosenlew Oy #.................................................................
Officemartindia.com Limited.....................................................
Trringo.com Limited........................................................................
(ii)

Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees)

2023
Rupees
crores

Number

Rupees
crores

10
10

2,71,00,007
63,44,00,000

700.21
415.04

2,71,00,007
63,44,00,000

700.21
415.04

10

82,79,511

178.84

82,79,511

178.84

NA
NA
10
10
10
NA
10
10

1
3
2,63,126
4,45,50,466
25,94,800
16,062
7,49,997
2,74,60,000

42.53
149.06
89.02
45.30
2.59
312.96
—
27.46
16,107.60

1
3
—
4,45,50,466
—
—
7,49,997
2,74,60,000

42.53
149.06
—
45.30
—
—
—
27.46
12,611.47

In Trust Securities
M&M Benefit Trust..............................................................................
M&M Fractional Entitlement Trust...........................................
Sunrise Initiatives Trust .................................................................

(iii) In Associate Companies
Equity shares
PF Holdings B.V......................................................................................
PSL Media & Communications Limited..................................
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited ~..................................
ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited..............................
Preference shares
(classified as equity instruments)
Series C Preferred shares: Resson Aerospace
Corporation...............................................................................................
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited - Compulsorily
Convertible Preference shares - Series D1 CCPS ~......

(iv) In Joint Venture Companies
Equity shares
Carnot Technologies Private Limited...................................
Classic Legends Private Limited.............................................
M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited #.................
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited #..............................
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited.............................
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private
Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special
Steel Private Limited).....................................................................
Sampo Rosenlew Oy#....................................................................
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited ^^.....

2022

Number

1,189.42
0.01
62.30
1,251.73

1,189.42
0.01
62.30
1,251.73

EUR 1
5
2
10

2,63,36,050
19,750
4,11,16,885
1,60,74,000

254.05
0.01
320.73
16.07
590.86

2,63,36,050
19,750
1,64,46,754
1,60,74,000

254.05
0.01
320.73
16.07
590.86

NA

8,00,402

34.45

8,00,402

34.45

2

1,22,17,950

95.07
129.52
720.38

48,87,180

95.07
129.52
720.38

10
10
10
10
LKR 1000
10

4,734
31,50,00,235
—
—
1,75,000
—

5.95
315.71
—
—
6.79
—

4,734
24,25,28,000
1,24,537
83,56,30,306
1,75,000
34,75,264

5.95
243.24
23.80
1,075.45
6.79
145.13

NA
10

—
2,77,68,400

—
71.56
400.01

4,995
3,47,105

218.34
71.56
1,790.26

257

8.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars

Preference shares
(classified as equity instruments)
Compulsory Convertible Cumulative Preference
shares: Carnot Technologies Private Limited .............
– Series A .............................................................................................
– Series B .............................................................................................
– Series C .............................................................................................
– Seed .....................................................................................................
Compulsorily Convertible Cumulative Participating
Preference shares: Smartshift Logistics Solutions
Private Limited:
– 0.01% Series C ............................................................................
– 0.01% Series C1 ........................................................................
Non
Cumulative
Compulsorily
Convertible
Preference shares: Zoomcar India Private Limited:
– 0.0001% Series P1 ..................................................................
– 0.0001% Series P2 ..................................................................

(B) Designated and carried at FVTOCI
(i) In Other Companies
Gamaya SA:
– Irredeemable Preferred shares...............................................
– Common shares.................................................................................
TVS Automobile Solutions Private Limited:
Compulsorily Convertible Preference shares .................
Equity shares - others.......................................................................
Investments in Equity Instruments (Total).........................................
Investments in Debt instruments:
Unquoted
At Amortised Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
10.00% Non-Cumulative Redeemable Participating
Preference shares: Mahindra Construction Company
Limited .....................................................................................................
In Other Companies
Others ......................................................................................................
Investments in Debt Instruments (Total)............................................
Other Non Current Investments
Unquoted
Mandatorily measured and Carried at FVTPL:
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
6.00% Optionally Convertible Cumulative
Redeemable Preference shares : Mahindra Agri
Solutions Limited...............................................................................
7.91% Optionally Convertible Redeemable Bonds :
Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l..........

Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees)

2023

2022

Number

Rupees
crores

Number

Rupees
crores

100
100
100
100

6,663
2,298
7,423
4,480

5.77
3.00
11.50
5.85

6,663
2,298
7,423
4,480

5.77
3.00
11.50
5.85

100
100

3,15,788
1,84,529

64.38
37.50

3,15,788
1,84,529

64.38
37.50

10
10

3,63,752
1,03,063

129.13
—
257.13
657.14

3,63,752
1,03,063

129.13
—
257.13
2,047.39

CHF 1
CHF 1

30,469
300

—
—

30,469
300

—
—

10

—

—
0.07
0.07
23,942.10

3,32,295

35.00
0.07
35.07
22,191.88

100

5,40,000

—
—

5,40,000

—
—

(ii)

*
—

*
—

46

1,06,96,170

29.82

1,06,96,170

38.86

1

6,57,70,67,725

62.75
92.57

—

—
38.86

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

8.

258

Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars

In Joint Venture Companies
18.00% Optionally Convertible Debenture:
Zoomcar India Private Limited.................................................
(iii) In Others
Investment in Alternate Investment Fund.......................

Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees)

2023

2022

Number

Rupees
crores

Number

Rupees
crores

—

—

—

—

(ii)

1,00,000

26.24
26.24
118.81
24,060.92

24.75
24.75
63.61
22,255.49

Other Non-Current Investments (Total)...................................................
Total Non-Current Investments (Gross)...................................................
Less: Aggregate amount of impairment in value of
investments..........................................................................................................
(6,521.86)
17,539.06
Total Non-Current Investments (Net)........................................................
Other Disclosures
5,205.18
(i) Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross).....................
Market Value of quoted investments................................................
51,714.55
18,855.74
(ii) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross)...............
Notes:
** Status has been changed from Associate to Subsidiary
* denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.
# Status has been changed from Joint Venture to Subsidiary
~ Face value has been reduced from 5 to 2
^^ Bonus shares issued in the ratio of 1:79
## Company renamed as “KG Mobility”, trading resumed on a stock exchange outside India post 31st March, 2023
@ Subsequent to 31st March, 2023 entire shares has been sold
B.

(5,953.09)
16,302.40
5,525.84
57,237.27
16,729.65

Current investments

Particulars
Quoted:
Mandatorily measured and carried at FVTPL
Investments in Mutual Funds..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Market Linked Debentures............................................................................................................................................................................
Designated and carried at FVTOCI
Investments in Equity Instruments..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Debentures and Bonds.....................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Government securities ...................................................................................................................................................................................

Unquoted:
Carried at FVTOCI
Investments in Commercial Papers.............................................................................................................................................................................................
Carried at amortised cost
Investments in Corporate Fixed Deposits .............................................................................................................................................................................
Designated and carried at FVTOCI
Investments in Certificate of Deposits ...................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Current Investments
Other Disclosures
(i) Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross).............................................................................................................................................
Market Value of quoted investments............................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross).......................................................................................................................................

2023

2022

6,841.82
100.53
6,942.35

6,760.77
—
6,760.77

0.01
24.85
10.02
34.88
6,977.23

0.01
31.09
4.99
36.09
6,796.86

312.16
312.16

—
—

254.19
254.19

253.00
253.00

2,004.43

852.20

9,548.01

7,902.06

6,977.23
6,977.23
2,570.78

6,796.86
6,796.86
1,105.20

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

259

9.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Loans
Particulars
(a)

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

169.31

310.79

2,173.47

1,791.70

Loans to related parties (refer note 39)
Unsecured considered good.............................................................................................................
Credit impaired ........................................................................................................................................

(b)

Rupees crores
Non-Current

6.00

11.00

4.59

5.27

175.31

321.79

2,178.06

1,796.97

Less: Loss Allowance ..........................................................................................................................

6.00

11.00

4.59

5.27

Total (a)........................................................................................................................................................

169.31

310.79

2,173.47

1,791.70

8.14

12.86

3.49

53.82

Other Loans
Unsecured, considered good .........................................................................................................
Credit impaired ........................................................................................................................................
Less: Loss Allowance ..........................................................................................................................

—

246.19

—

—

8.14

259.05

3.49

53.82

—

184.64

—

—

Total (b)........................................................................................................................................................

8.14

74.41

3.49

53.82

Total Loans................................................................................................................................................

177.45

385.20

2,176.96

1,845.52

(a)	Non current Loan to Related Parties includes Loan to Director Rs 0.31 crores (2022 : Rs 0.79 crores).
(b) Other Current and Non Current Loans mainly includes loans to employees and loans given to other companies.
(c)	Loans given to employees as per the Company’s policy are not considered for the purposes of disclosure under Section 186(4) of the
Companies Act, 2013.
10. Other Financial Assets
Particulars

Rupees crores
Non-Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Security deposits.................................................................................................................................................

44.10

41.10

16.02

21.21

Corporate Fixed Deposits ............................................................................................................................

—

102.09

—

—

Bank deposits with more than 12 months maturity ..............................................................

408.26

421.19

—

—

Interest accrued...................................................................................................................................................

—

—

151.62

132.79

Other financial assets......................................................................................................................................

1,022.73

976.81

1,133.05

666.25

Derivative financial assets............................................................................................................................

—

4.47

20.80

237.83

Derivatives on Interest over Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures..................

28.20

21.54

—

70.37

Total Other Financial Assets..................................................................................................................

1,503.29

1,567.20

1,321.49

1,128.45

Carried at amortised cost:

Carried at fair value:

	Other Financial Assets include receivables for oil royalty income, scrap sales, incentive receivables, share application money and other recoverable
expenses.
	Derivative financial assets includes foreign currency forwards, commodity derivatives in the nature of forward contracts, interest rate swaps and options.
11. Other Non Financial Assets
Particulars

Rupees crores
Non-Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Capital advances...................................................................................................................................................

804.60

784.82

—

—

Other advances

440.36

526.62

3,499.68

2,639.93

1,244.96

1,311.44

3,499.68

2,639.93

Total Other Non Financial Assets.......................................................................................................

	Other advances include advances to suppliers, prepaid expenses, export benefits receivable, other recoverable expenses, balances with government
authorities (other than income taxes) and Goods and Services Tax (GST) receivable and contract assets.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

12. Inventories

260

Rupees crores

Particulars
Raw Materials and Bought-out Components [includes in transit Rs. 400.29 crores; 2022 : Rs. 122.17 crores]................

2023

2022

4,381.05

2,544.76

Work-in-Progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

158.73

136.83

Finished Goods..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,849.85

2,222.70

Stock-in-Trade [includes in transit Nil; 2022 : Rs. 0.31 crores].............................................................................................................................

747.54

587.04

Manufactured Components..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

461.14

280.50

Stores and Spares...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

204.56

124.97

Tools.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

78.48

73.59

Total Inventories...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

8,881.35

5,970.39

(a)	The amount of inventories recognised as an expense is Rs. 72,365.57 crores (2022 : Rs. 48,490.27 crores) including Rs. 200.56 crores
(2022 : Rs. 75.94 crores) in respect of write-down of inventories to net realisable value, and has been reduced by Rs. 95.45 crores (2022 :
Rs. 63.73 crores) in respect of the reversal of such write downs. Reversal in provision is due to sale and/or consumption of inventories provided for
in earlier years.
(b)	The Company has availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, some of which are
secured by hypothecation of inventories.
(c)

Method of valuation of inventories is stated in Note 2(h).

13. Trade Receivables

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023

2022

Unsecured, considered good............................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,041.73

3,028.87

Credit impaired..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

226.60

248.85

4,268.33

3,277.72

Less: Loss Allowance [(Refer Note 38 - 2(b)]. ..................................................................................................................................................................

226.60

239.15

Total Trade Receivables.................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,041.73

3,038.57

Ageing of trade receivables

Rupees crores

Particulars

Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due

Less than 6 months 6 months
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

Undisputed trade receivables - considered good ................

1,440.02

2,450.54

84.53

36.56

16.89

13.19

4,041.73

Undisputed trade receivables - credit impaired ....................

—

2.34

15.80

9.66

34.88

66.25

128.93

Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired .........................

—

0.01

2.10

12.47

10.73

72.36

97.67

1,440.02

2,452.89

102.43

58.69

62.50

151.80

4,268.33

As at 31st March, 2023

Less: Loss Allowance [Refer Note 38 - 2(b)] ..........................

(226.60)

Total ...................................................................................................................

4,041.73

As at 31 March, 2022
st

Undisputed trade receivables - considered good ................

1,158.22

1,616.20

111.19

60.75

40.79

41.72

3,028.87

Undisputed trade receivables - credit impaired ....................

—

1.34

34.83

69.50

Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired .........................

—

0.20

16.21

8.07

25.31

38.20

169.18

9.67

45.52

79.67

1,158.22

1,617.74

162.23

138.32

75.77

125.44

3,277.72

Less: Loss Allowance ...............................................................................

(239.15)

Total ...................................................................................................................

3,038.57

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

261

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

14. Cash & Cash Equivalents and Bank Balances

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023

2022

– On Current accounts.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

547.79

384.75

– Fixed deposits with original maturity less than 3 months.....................................................................................................................................

656.73

261.72

1,204.52

646.47

Cheques, drafts on hand (including in transit).....................................................................................................................................................................

105.51

70.70

Cash on hand..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.08

0.09

Total Cash and cash equivalents............................................................................................................................................................................................

1,310.11

717.26

Earmarked balances with banks....................................................................................................................................................................................................

17.18

17.16

Balances with banks on margin accounts..............................................................................................................................................................................

9.78

9.71

Fixed deposits.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,144.68

2,906.44

Total Other Bank balances...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,171.64

2,933.31

a)

Cash and cash equivalents

Balances with banks

b)

Bank Balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents

15. Assets held for sale
	In April, 2022 , the Company agreed to sell 34,75,264 Equity shares of Rs. 10 each in Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (Formerly
known as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited) (‘SSSMIPL’) aggregating 22.81% of paid-up Equity Share Capital of SSSMIPL to Sanyo Special
Steel Co., Ltd (“Sanyo”). The investment has been classified as ‘Asset Held for Sale’ as at 31st March, 2023. The sale has been completed subsequent to
31st March, 2023 before the financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board.
	On 22nd March, 2023, the Company has approved to sell/transfer assets and/or business pertaining to the Last Mile Mobility Business of the Company
to a new company to be incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The transaction is subject to customary approvals. Accordingly, the
identified assets and liabilities have been classified as ‘Held for Sale’ as at 31st March, 2023 in the Standalone Balance sheet.
16. Equity Share Capital
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

11,156.50

9,050.00

Authorised:
22,31,30,00,000 (2022: 1810,00,00,000) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each.............................................................................
25,00,000 Unclassified Shares of Rs. 100 each (2022: 25,00,000).................................................................................................................

25.00

25.00

150,00,00,000 Preference Shares of Rs. 10 each (2022: 150,00,00,000)................................................................................................

1,500.00

1,500.00

12,681.50

10,575.00

621.77

621.60

Issued and Subscribed and Paid-up:
1,24,35,28,831 (2022: 1,24,31,92,544) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each fully paid up...................................................
Less:
4,54,10,607 (2022: 4,65,91,301) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each fully paid up issued to M&M ESOP Trust
but not yet allotted to employees..............................................................................................................................................................................................

22.72

23.30

Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital....................................................................................................................................

599.05

598.30

a.

Reconciliation of number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares and amount outstanding:
Particulars

2023

2022

No.
of Shares

Rupees
Crores

No.
of Shares

Rupees
Crores

At the beginning of the year..................................................................................................... 1,24,31,92,544

621.60

1,24,31,92,544

621.60

Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up :
Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement....................................................

3,36,287

0.17

—

—

1,24,35,28,831

621.77

1,24,31,92,544

621.60

4,54,10,607

22.72

4,65,91,301

23.30

Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital................................... 1,19,81,18,224

599.05

1,19,66,01,243

598.30

Less: Shares issued to M&M ESOP Trust but not allotted to employees.......

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

262

16. Equity Share Capital (contd.)
b. The Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company rank pari-passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend.
c.	Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up shares of the
Company:
Name of the Shareholder

d.

2023

2022

No.
of Shares

Shareholding
%

No.
of Shares

Shareholding
%

Prudential Management and Services Private Limited................................................

14,15,21,940

11.38

14,15,21,940

11.38

M&M Benefit Trust.................................................................................................................................

8,44,70,428

6.79

8,44,70,428

6.79

Life Insurance Corporation of India............................................................................................

6,21,30,470

5.00

8,55,54,624

6.88

Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by Promoter and Promoter group:
Name of the Promoters

2023
No. Shareholding
of Shares
%

2022
% Change
during the
year

No.
of Shares

Shareholding
%

% Change
during the
year

Promoters:
Anand Mahindra .....................................................................

14,30,008

0.12%

—

14,30,008

0.12%

—

Keshub Mahindra ...................................................................

8,84,592

0.07%

—

8,84,592

0.07%

—

Sub Total (A) ..........................................................................

23,14,600

0.19%

23,14,600

0.19%

Anjali K Mahindra.....................................................................

2,04,438

0.02%

0.00%

2,12,208

0.02%

—

Anuradha Mahindra................................................................

4,57,090

0.04%

—

4,57,090

0.04%

—

Dhruv S Sharma.......................................................................

30,000

0.00%

—

30,000

0.00%

—

Deveshwar Jagat Sharma..................................................

30,000

0.00%

—

30,000

0.00%

—

Gautam P Khandelwal.........................................................

4,600

0.00%

—

4,600

0.00%

—

Leena S Labroo.........................................................................

12,51,884

0.10%

—

12,51,884

0.10%

0.00%

Nisheeta Labroo.......................................................................

1,60,500

0.01%

—

1,60,500

0.01%

0.00%

Aneesha Labroo........................................................................

1,60,000

0.01%

—

1,60,000

0.01%

—

Radhika Nath..............................................................................

93,616

0.01%

—

93,616

0.01%

—

Sanjay Labroo............................................................................

2,89,440

0.02%

0.01%

1,45,440

0.01%

—

Sudha Keshub Mahindra.....................................................

14,52,032

0.12%

—

14,52,032

0.12%

—

Uma R Malhotra.......................................................................

10,09,604

0.08%

—

10,09,604

0.08%

—

Yuthica Keshub Mahindra..................................................

6,44,744

0.05%

0.01%

7,16,744

0.06%

0.00%

Kema Services International Private Limited......

7,34,832

0.06%

—

7,34,832

0.06%

—

Prudential Management and Services Private
Limited............................................................................................. 14,15,21,940

11.38%

—

14,15,21,940

11.38%

—

M&M Benefit Trust.................................................................

8,44,70,428

6.79%

—

8,44,70,428

6.79%

—

Sub Total (B) .......................................................................... 23,25,15,148

18.69%

23,24,50,918

18.69%

Total (A+B) ............................................................................... 23,48,29,748

18.88%

23,47,65,518

18.88%

Promoter Group:

e.

For the period of preceding five years as on the Balance Sheet date, Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital includes:

		

i.	Aggregate of 8,40,175 (2022: 5,03,888) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to scheme of arrangement
without payment being received in cash.

		

ii.

Aggregate of 62,15,96,272 (2022: 62,15,96,272) Ordinary (Equity) Shares allotted as fully paid up by way of bonus shares.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

263

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

17. Details of Dividends proposed:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Dividend per share (Rupees)...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

16.25

11.55

Dividend on Equity Shares................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,020.73

1,435.89

Total Dividend ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,020.73

1,435.89

18. Borrowings
a)
		

Long Term Borrowings
i)

Non Current borrowings
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Debentures...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,471.24

3,467.38

Term loan from banks...................................................................................................................................................................................................

600.00

1,841.67

Other loans...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

260.32

372.48

Total Unsecured Borrowings...............................................................................................................................................................................

2,331.56

5,681.53

Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost):

			(a)

Debentures:

Rupees crores
2023

2022

– 9.55% p.a. Senior Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in July 2063 ...............................

500.00

500.00

– 7.57% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in September 2026 ...............................

475.00

475.00

– 6.19% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in June 2025#.............................................

500.00

500.00

– 6.78% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in April, 2023 .............................................

—

1,000.00

– 6.65% p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in April, 2023 .............................................

—

1,000.00

Less: Unamortised finance cost .............................................................................................................................................................

3.76

7.62

1,471.24

3,467.38

				

#	The Company and the debentures holders have call and put option respectively to redeem, in part or in full, the debentures on
8th June, 2023 and 8th June, 2024.
			
(b)	Term Loan from Banks:
				The Company has Unsecured Term Loan from banks which are repayable over a period of maximum five years upto May 2025 and carry
interest rates which is linked to Repo rate with 2% p.a.p.m. Certain loans have floor rate and ceiling rate defined such that the effective
interest rate would range between 5.95% p.a.p.m. to 7.95% p.a.p.m.
			
(c)	Other loans mainly comprise of deferred sales tax loans which are interest free and repayable in five equal installments after ten years from
the year of availment of respective loan.
b)

Short Term Borrowings
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

—

2.56

Commercial Papers ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

—

496.48

Current maturities of long term borrowings ..........................................................................................................................................................

2,312.17

317.20

Total Short Term Borrowings..........................................................................................................................................................................................

2,312.17

816.24

Secured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Loans and Advances on cash credit account from Banks .............................................................................................................................
Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost):

		The Company has also availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, which are
secured by hypothecation of inventories.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

264

18. Borrowings (contd.)
b) Short Term Borrowings (contd.)
		Reconciliation of movement in borrowings to cash flows from financing activities
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

– Long Term Borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

5,681.53

6,989.84

– Short Term Borrowings.........................................................................................................................................................................................................

816.24

672.50

– Unclaimed matured Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................

0.07

0.09

Total Opening Balance..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

6,497.84

7,662.43

—

288.79

Opening balance

a)

Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer Note 44 (B)].............................................................................................................

b)

Cash flow movements

c)

– Proceeds from borrowings.....................................................................................................................................................................................

—

966.61

– Repayment of borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................

(1,861.43)

(2,514.72)

(1,861.43)

(1,548.11)

– Effect of amortisation of loan origination costs....................................................................................................................................

7.33

19.05

– Foreign exchange translation...............................................................................................................................................................................

—

3.93

Non-cash movements

– Forward contract adjustment..............................................................................................................................................................................

—

71.75

7.33

94.73

– Long Term Borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,331.56

5,681.53

– Short Term Borrowings (other than loans repayable on demand)........................................................................................................

2,312.17

816.24

Closing Balance

– Unclaimed matured Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................

0.01

0.07

Total Closing Balance.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,643.74

6,497.84

19. Other Financial Liabilities
Rupees crores
Particulars

Non-Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Interest accrued and not due on borrowings.................................................................................

—

—

177.77

182.75

Unclaimed dividends..........................................................................................................................................

—

—

17.18

17.16

Unclaimed matured deposits and interest accrued thereon................................................

—

—

0.01

0.07

Security Deposits................................................................................................................................................

90.43

86.07

—

—

Other liabilities ...................................................................................................................................................

559.42

562.66

1,338.02

1,151.96

Derivative financial Liabilities......................................................................................................................

—

—

89.23

22.37

Derivatives on Interest in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures........................

28.51

34.39

—

22.22

Total other financial liabilities.............................................................................................................

678.36

683.12

1,622.21

1,396.52

Carried at Amortised Cost:

Carried at Fair Value:

	Other liabilities include salaries and wages payable, capital creditors, brand licenses payable, monies adjusted from share capital and other equity on
account of shares held by M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees.

265

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

20. Provisions

Rupees crores

Particulars

Non-Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Provision for Employee Benefits................................................................................................................

731.61

578.68

147.97

117.37

Provision for Warranty.......................................................................................................................................

448.42

316.67

350.51

265.30

Provision for Service Coupons.....................................................................................................................

27.06

29.80

108.35

81.11

Total Provisions...................................................................................................................................................

1,207.09

925.15

606.83

463.78

	Provision for warranty relates to provision made in respect of sale of certain products and components, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the
time of sale. The products are generally covered under a free warranty period ranging from 1 to 8 years.
	Provision for employee benefits includes gratuity, provident fund, post retirement benefits, compensated absence etc.
The movement in provision for warranty and service coupon is as follows :
Particulars

Rupees crores
Warranty

Service coupons

2023

2022

2023

2022

Opening Balance...................................................................................................................................................

581.97

572.29

110.91

98.25

Addition due to the scheme of Arrangement..................................................................................

—

7.18

—

0.67

Additional net provisions recognised during the year...............................................................

589.24

272.29

151.64

116.93

Amounts utilised during the year.............................................................................................................

(389.58)

(292.14)

(126.89)

(107.99)

Unwinding of discount......................................................................................................................................

26.57

22.35

3.96

3.05

Reclassified as held for sale.........................................................................................................................

(9.28)

—

(4.22)

—

Closing Balance..................................................................................................................................................

798.93

581.97

135.41

110.91

21. Income Taxes
Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net)
Particulars

Rupees crores
Balance as at
01-04-2022

Acquisitions Charge/(credit) Charge/(credit) Balance as at
to OCI
31-3-2023
to Profit or
through
Loss
business
combinations

Tax effect of items resulting in taxable temporary differences
Allowances on Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible
Assets........................................................................................................................................

2,109.51

—

(182.54)

—

1,926.95

Others........................................................................................................................................

73.62

—

37.56

—

111.18

Provision for employee benefits.............................................................................

(220.66)

—

(22.49)

(31.23)

(274.38)

Allowances for credit losses......................................................................................

(86.00)

—

4.29

—

(81.71)

Long term capital losses..............................................................................................

(48.65)

—

(41.70)

—

(90.35)

Others........................................................................................................................................

(65.64)

—

(59.48)

3.72

(121.40)

Total Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net)..........................................................

1,762.18

—

(264.37)

(27.51)

1,470.29

Tax effect of items resulting in deductible temporary differences

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

266

21. Income Taxes (contd.)
Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net) (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars

Balance as at
01-04-2021

Acquisitions Charge/(credit) Charge/(credit) Balance as at
to OCI
31-3-2022
to Profit or
through
Loss
business
combinations
[Refer note 44
(B)]

Tax effect of items resulting in taxable temporary differences
Allowances on Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible
Assets......................................................................................................................................

1,873.20

60.44

175.87

—

2,109.51

Others......................................................................................................................................

59.45

—

14.17

—

73.62

Provision for employee benefits...........................................................................

(269.01)

(4.10)

18.30

34.16

(220.66)

Allowances for credit losses....................................................................................

(79.71)

(3.51)

(2.78)

—

(86.00)

Long term capital losses............................................................................................

(71.80)

—

23.15

—

(48.65)

Others......................................................................................................................................

(62.46)

(2.16)

(2.30)

1.28

(65.64)

Total Deferred Tax (Assets)/Liabilities (Net)........................................................

1,449.67

50.67

226.41

35.44

1,762.18

Tax effect of items resulting in deductible temporary differences

Income Tax recognised in profit or loss
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

In respect of current year................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,033.85

1,066.87

In respect of prior year.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(187.34)

(15.18)

1,846.51

1,051.69

In respect of current year origination and reversal of temporary differences...........................................................................................

(215.17)

198.67

Effect of utilisation/(recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses...................................................................................................................

(41.70)

23.15

In respect of prior year.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(7.50)

4.59

(264.37)

226.41

1,582.14

1,278.10

Current Tax:

Deferred Tax:

Total Income Tax recognised in profit or loss............................................................................................................................................................
Income tax recognised in Other comprehensive income
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Effective portion of gains and loss on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge............................

(4.19)

(1.53)

Net fair value gain on investments in debt instruments at FVTOCI..................................................................................................................

0.47

0.25

Remeasurement of defined benefit plans.............................................................................................................................................................................

31.23

(34.16)

Sub Total (A).............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

27.51

(35.44)

Net fair value gain on investments in equity shares at FVTOCI

(2.52)

—

Sub Total (B)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(2.52)

—

Total Income tax recognised in Other comprehensive income Total (A) + (B)...............................................................................

24.99

(35.44)

Deferred tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during the year:

Current tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during the year:

267

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

21. Income Taxes (contd.)
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at tax rate to income tax expense reported in profit or loss is as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Profit before tax......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

8,130.78

6,147.98

Applicable Income tax rate..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

25.17%

25.17%

Expected income tax expense.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,046.35

1,547.32

Effect of income exempt from tax / non taxable on compliance of conditions.......................................................................................

(429.04)

(361.65)

Effect of income chargeable at specified tax rates........................................................................................................................................................

(164.56)

(142.06)

Effect of expenses/provisions not deductible in determining taxable profit................................................................................................

340.21

216.92

Effect of utilisation/ (recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses.................................................................................................................

(41.70)

23.15

Effect of net additional / (reversal) of provision in respect of prior years...................................................................................................

(194.84)

(10.59)

Others..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

25.72

5.01

Reported income tax expense.................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,582.14

1,278.10

Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported income tax expense:

The amount and expiry period of unused capital losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the Balance Sheet
Rupees crores
Expiry Period
More than Five Years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2023

2022

3,078.66

—

22. Other Non Financial Liabilities
Rupees crores
Particulars

Non-Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Contract Liabilities................................................................................................................................................

427.62

211.85

560.39

664.51

Others............................................................................................................................................................................

—

—

3,017.82

2,281.69

Total Other Non Financial Liabilities.................................................................................................

427.62

211.85

3,578.21

2,946.20

Others mainly include government dues, taxes payable, GST payable and salary deductions payable.
There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund.
23. Trade Payables
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

206.93

116.32

– Trade payable - Other than Micro and small enterprises .....................................................................................................................................

16,028.39

11,919.29

– Acceptances............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

910.30

934.52

16,938.69

12,853.81

17,145.62

12,970.13

Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises.................................................................................................................
Total outstanding dues other than micro enterprises and small enterprises

Total Trade Payables........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

268

23. Trade Payables (contd.)
	Micro and Small enterprises have been identified by the Company on the basis of the information available. Total outstanding dues of Micro and
Small enterprises, which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period and other disclosures as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Development Act, 2006 (hereinafter referred to as “the MSMED Act”) are given below :
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

– Principal.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

5.31

3.56

– Interest on the above..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.13

0.51

– Principal paid beyond the appointed date............................................................................................................................................................

460.33

636.01

– Interest paid in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act...........................................................................................................................

0.66

1.10

(c)	Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay on payments made beyond the appointed day
during the year .........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2.03

0.89

(d)	Further interest due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as
above are actually paid to the small enterprises ............................................................................................................................................

1.80

2.04

(e)

3.96

3.44

(a)

Dues remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year for micro and small enterprises

(b)	Interest paid in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act along with the amount of payment made to the
supplier beyond the appointed day during the year

Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid...........................................................................................................................................

Ageing of trade payables
Particulars

Rupees crores
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

MSME................................................................................................................

201.61

5.25

0.07

—

—

206.93

Others...............................................................................................................

10,938.66

1,412.94

45.95

2.15

7.42

12,407.12

Disputed dues - Others........................................................................

—

—

—

—

0.03

0.03

11,140.27

1,418.19

46.02

2.15

7.45

12,614.08

As at 31st March, 2023
Trade Payables

Accrued Expenses....................................................................................

4,531.54

Total..................................................................................................................

17,145.62

As at 31 March, 2022
st

Trade Payables
MSME................................................................................................................

112.76

3.56

—

—

—

116.32

Others...............................................................................................................

8,443.75

667.22

20.10

11.63

30.51

9,173.21

Disputed dues - Others........................................................................

—

—

—

—

0.03

0.03

8,556.51

670.78

20.10

11.63

30.54

9,289.56

Accrued Expenses....................................................................................

3,680.57

Total...................................................................................................................

12,970.13

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

269

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

24. Revenue from Operations
Particulars
(a)

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Sale of products..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

82,032.35

55,536.64

Sale of services............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,218.96

1,138.19

From contract with customers for goods and services

Other operating revenue^....................................................................................................................................................................................................

817.34

612.64

84,068.65

57,287.47

– Government grant and incentives..............................................................................................................................................................................

800.81

421.58

– Others.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

90.80

77.89

891.61

499.47

Total Revenue from Operations..............................................................................................................................................................................................

84,960.26

57,786.94

(b)

From other sources of revenue
Other operating revenue

Reconciliation of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with contracted price
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Revenue from contract with customer as per the contract price......................................................................................................................

87,158.14

58,935.39

Less: Trade discounts, volume rebates, returns etc. .....................................................................................................................................................

(3,089.49)

(1,647.92)

Revenue from contract with customer as per the statement of Profit and Loss......................................................................

84,068.65

57,287.47

Revenue disaggregation as per nature of products and services and geography has been included in segment information (refer note 42).
^ Other operating revenue mainly includes income from oil royalty and scrap sales.
25. Other Income
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

– On Financial Assets measured at Amortised Cost..........................................................................................................................................

291.56

353.83

– On Financial Assets at Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income...................................................................................

89.35

4.11

– On equity investments in subsidiaries, associates and JV’s.....................................................................................................................

1,607.14

1,363.02

(c)

Net Gain arising on financial assets/ liabilities measured at Fair Value through profit or loss..........................................

304.30

182.64

(d)

Other non operating income (net of directly attributable expenses)..................................................................................................

252.82

150.15

Total Other Income.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,545.17

2,053.75

(a)

(b)

Interest Income

Dividend Income

26. Cost of materials consumed
Rupees crores
Particulars
Opening inventories...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2023

2022

2,544.76

1,919.70

Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)]........................................................................................................................

—

47.94

Add: Purchases..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

64,150.58

41,306.99

66,695.34

43,274.63

Less: Closing inventories....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,381.05

2,544.76

Less: Reclassified as held for sale...............................................................................................................................................................................................

88.09

—

Total Cost of materials consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................

62,226.20

40,729.87

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

270

27. Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Finished goods...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,222.70

1,811.28

Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

136.83

165.68

Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

587.04

486.06

Manufactured Components..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

280.50

220.42

3,227.07

2,683.45

—

2.55

Finished goods...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,849.85

2,222.70

Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

158.73

136.83

Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

747.54

587.04

Manufactured Components..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

461.14

280.50

4,217.26

3,227.07

Reclassified as held for sale............................................................................................................................................................................................................

84.61

—

Net (increase) in inventories......................................................................................................................................................................................................

(1,074.80)

(541.07)

Opening inventories:

Add: Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)]
Finished goods...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Less: Closing inventories:

28. Employee Benefits Expense
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

(a)

Salaries and wages, including bonus............................................................................................................................................................................

3,023.30

2,726.20

(b)

Contribution to provident and other funds.............................................................................................................................................................

248.98

238.97

(c)

Equity settled share based payments (Refer Note 36)..................................................................................................................................

106.63

80.47

(d)

Staff welfare expenses...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

270.97

283.95

Total Employee Benefits Expense.........................................................................................................................................................................................

3,649.88

3,329.59

29. Finance Costs
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Interest expense for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost...................................................................................................

386.71

462.89

Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets.................................................................................................................................

182.49

293.94

204.22

168.95

Other borrowing costs..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

68.56

57.23

Total Finance Costs.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

272.78

226.18

(a)

(b)

Other borrowing cost includes discounting charges, unwinding of discount on lease and other liabilities.
	The weighted average capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is 6.57% p.a.
(2022 : 5.91% p.a)

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

271

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

30. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

(a)

Depreciation on Property, Plant and Equipment...................................................................................................................................................

1,752.64

1,505.86

(b)

Amortisation on Right-of-use asset................................................................................................................................................................................

105.33

52.62

(c)

Amortisation on Intangible Assets...................................................................................................................................................................................

1,268.39

935.07

(d)

Impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets under development..........................................................

28.10

4.84

Total Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense.............................................................................................................................

3,154.46

2,498.39

31. Other Expenses
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Advertisements.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

492.26

423.42

Freight outward........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

842.21

725.03

Stores consumed.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

275.35

194.39

Tools consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

72.88

54.70

Power and Fuel.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

343.98

264.72

Repairs and Maintenance..................................................................................................................................................................................................................

377.60

284.78

Sales promotion expenses................................................................................................................................................................................................................

268.65

179.20

Legal and Professional charges [refer note (a)]................................................................................................................................................................

412.80

427.36

Hire and Service charges...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,463.00

1,174.53

Miscellaneous expenses [refer note (b), (c) & (d)]...........................................................................................................................................................

1,761.02

1,141.34

Total Other Expenses.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

6,309.75

4,869.47

(a)

Auditors remuneration (Net of taxes where applicable) included in Legal and Professional charges are as below:
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Audit Fees (including quarterly limited reviews)....................................................................................................................................................

6.58

5.95

Other Services................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.29

0.25

Reimbursement of expenses...............................................................................................................................................................................................

0.23

0.20

Total......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7.10

6.40

Audit Fees..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.10

0.09

Total......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.10

0.09

Statutory Auditors:

Cost Auditors:

(b)

The foreign exchange (net) gain recognised in profit or loss is Rs. 58.74 crores (2022 : net gain of Rs. 95.70 crores).

(c)	Short term lease expenses recognised during the year is Rs. 44.16 crores (2022 : Rs. 37.76 crores).
(d)

Includes contribution to political parties Rs. 25.00 crores (2022 : Nil).

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

272

32. Corporate Social Responsibility
	As per section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, the Company is required to spend 2% of its average net profit of the immediately three preceding
financial years on CSR.
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

a)	Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year based on 2% of average net profits..........

91.87

96.85

b)	Amount spent during the year on:
i)

Construction/ acquisition of assets held by the Company.................................................................................................................

—

—

ii)

On purposes other than above.............................................................................................................................................................................

92.28

97.08

c)	Unspent amount at the end of the year....................................................................................................................................................................

—

—

d)	Driven by the core purpose and in line with CSR vision, your Company continued to focus on investing in girls, women, and a massive tree plantation
drive through high standard projects in the domains of education, skill development, and environment. Across all programmes, the Company has
ensured that majority of beneficiaries are girls and women.
	Amount recognised as expense in profit or loss is Rs. 92.28 crores (2022: Rs. 97.08 crores). Further, the Company does not wish to carry forward any
excess amount spent during the year.
33. Exceptional Items (net)
	
The Company classifies items of income and expense within profit or loss from ordinary activities as exceptional items when they are of such size, nature
or incidence that their disclosure is relevant to explain the performance for the period.
Exceptional Items (net) recognised in profit or loss
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Profit on transfer / sale of certain long term investments.....................................................................................................................................

271.70

524.40

Sale of certain freehold land..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

359.32

29.43

Impairment loss on certain long term investments.......................................................................................................................................................

(1,676.45)

(813.06)

Impairment of Property Plant and Equipment, Intangibles and certain other assets...........................................................................

(896.84)

—

Reversal of impairment loss on an investment.................................................................................................................................................................

512.73

50.56

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(1,429.54)

(208.67)

Impairment loss on certain investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures has been recognised considering the performance of these companies and their
future projections.
	The Company has capital assets and long-term investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are measured at cost less impairment
or at fair value through profit or loss. The management assesses the performance of these entities as well as capital assets including the future
projections, relevant economic and market conditions in which they operate to identify if there is any indicator of impairment in the carrying value
of the investments and capital assets. In case indicators of impairment exist, the impairment loss is measured by estimating the recoverable amounts
based on the higher of (i) ‘fair value less cost of disposal’ determined using market price information, where available, and (ii) ‘value-in-use’ estimates
determined using discounted cash flow projections, where available. The fair value less costs of disposal is determined using the market approach. The
future cash flow projections are specific to the entity based on its business plan and may not be the same as those of market participants. The future
cash flows consider key assumptions such as volume projections, margins, terminal growth rates, etc. with due consideration for the potential risks given
the current economic environment in which the entity operates. The discount rates used with required tax rates based on weighted average cost of
capital and reflects market’s assessment of the risks specific to the asset as well as time value of money. The recoverable amount estimates are based
on judgments, estimates, assumptions and market data as on reporting date and ignore subsequent changes in the economic and market conditions.
	During the year ended 31st March, 2023, the performance of certain capital assets, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures along with capital allocation
decisions, coupled with the relevant economic and market indicators including external investors price discovery, and inflationary trends resulted in indicators
of impairment in respect of certain entities and Assets. Accordingly, the Company determined the recoverable amounts of the long term assets and
other exposures related to these entities, other assets and recorded a provision of Rs. 2,573.29 crores (2022 : Rs. 813.06 crores) for the year ended
31st March, 2023. The value-in-use calculation use discount rates ranging from 11.0% - 25.0% and the terminal growth rates ranging from 2.0% -5.0%.

273

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

34. Earning Per Share (EPS)
Particulars

2023

2022

Profit for the year (Rupees crores)....................................................................................................................................................................................

6,548.64

4,869.88

Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing basic EPS................................................................

1,19,70,90,338

1,19,55,40,830

Effect of potential Dilutive Ordinary (Equity) Shares............................................................................................................................................

46,94,100

45,87,607

Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing diluted EPS............................................................

1,20,17,84,438

1,20,01,28,437

Basic Earnings per share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs. 5 per share).....................................................................................................................

54.70

40.73

Diluted Earnings per share (Rs.)...........................................................................................................................................................................................

54.49

40.58

35. Employee Benefits
General description of defined benefit plans:
Gratuity
	The Company operates a gratuity plan covering qualifying employees. The benefit payable is the greater of the amount calculated as per the Payment
of Gratuity Act or the Company scheme applicable to the employee. The benefit vests upon completion of five years of continuous service and once
vested it is payable to employees on retirement or on termination of employment. In case of death while in service, the gratuity is payable irrespective
of vesting. The Company makes annual contribution to the group gratuity scheme administered by the Life Insurance Corporation of India through its
Gratuity Trust Fund.
Post - retirement medical
	The Company provides post retirement medical cover to select grade of employees to cover the retiring employee and their spouse upto a specified
age through mediclaim policy on which the premiums are paid by the Company. The eligibility of the employee for the benefit as well as the amount of
medical cover purchased is determined by the grade of the employee at the time of retirement.
Post - retirement housing allowance
	The Company operates a post retirement benefit scheme for a certain grade of employees in which a monthly allowance determined on the basis of the
last drawn basic salary at the time of retirement, is paid to the retiring employee in lieu of housing.
Though its defined benefit plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset Volatility
	The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to government bond yields; if plan assets under perform compared to this
yield, this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans may hold equity type assets, which may carry volatility and associated risk.
Changes in bond yields
	A decrease in government bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’
investment in debt instruments.
Inflation risk
	The present value of some of the defined benefit plan obligations are calculated with reference to the future salaries of plan participants. As such,
an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. The post retirement medical benefit obligation is sensitive to medical
inflation and accordingly, an increase in medical inflation rate would increase the plan’s liability.
Life expectancy
	The present value of defined benefit plan obligation is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants, both during and
after the employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

274

35. Employee Benefits (contd.)
A.

Details of defined benefit plans as per actuarial valuation are as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

Funded Plan

Unfunded Plans
Post retirement
medical

Gratuity

i

ii

Post retirement
housing allowance

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

Amounts recognised in profit or loss
Current service cost.................................................................................

69.85

70.17

1.99

2.88

2.42

1.30

Past service cost........................................................................................

—

(0.38)

—

—

—

35.39

Net interest expense/(income).........................................................

(1.80)

(0.44)

3.02

3.15

7.83

5.32

Total amount included in employee benefits expense

68.05

69.35

5.01

6.03

10.25

42.01

– financial assumptions..................................................................

(32.84)

(42.99)

(2.42)

(3.09)

(5.03)

(7.27)

– demographic assumptions.......................................................

—

(13.31)

—

(7.92)

—

—

– experience adjustments............................................................

0.38

47.42

1.79

0.37

(1.33)

2.16

b)	Return on plan assets, excluding amount included
in net interest expense/ (income)..........................................

(2.10)

(9.57)

—

—

—

—

Total amount recognised in other comprehensive
income................................................................................................................

(34.56)

(18.45)

(0.63)

(10.64)

(6.36)

(5.11)

Opening defined benefit obligation...............................................

910.20

880.42

44.66

50.89

117.11

88.17

Acquisitions through business combinations
[Refer note 44 (B)] / Inter company transfers.....................

14.19

8.63

—

—

—

—

Amounts recognised in other comprehensive
income
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
a) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in -

iii

Changes in the defined benefit obligation

Current service cost.................................................................................

69.85

70.17

1.99

2.88

2.42

1.30

Past service cost........................................................................................

—

—

—

—

—

35.39

Interest expense.........................................................................................

58.76

51.20

3.02

3.15

7.83

5.32

(32.84)

(42.99)

(2.42)

(3.09)

(5.03)

(7.27)

- demographic assumptions..............................................................

—

(13.31)

—

(7.92)

—

—

- experience adjustments...................................................................

0.38

47.42

1.79

0.37

(1.33)

2.16

Benefits paid..................................................................................................

(86.96)

(91.34)

(1.11)

(1.62)

(8.85)

(7.96)

Closing defined benefit obligation..................................................

933.58

910.20

47.93

44.66

112.15

117.11

Opening fair value of plan assets..................................................

907.24

846.06

—

—

—

—

Add/(less) Assets acquired on account of business
combination [Refer note 44 (B)].....................................................

—

5.34

—

—

—

—

Interest income............................................................................................

60.56

51.64

—

—

—

—

Remeasurements (gains)/ losses arising from changes in - financial assumptions.........................................................................

iv

Changes in fair value of plan assets during the year

Return on plan assets excluding interest income..............

2.10

9.57

—

—

—

—

Contribution by employer.....................................................................

47.01

85.97

1.11

1.62

8.85

7.96

Benefits paid..................................................................................................

(86.96)

(91.34)

(1.11)

(1.62)

(8.85)

(7.96)

Closing fair value of plan assets

929.95

907.24

—

—

—

—

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

275

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

35. Employee Benefits (contd.)
A.

Details of defined benefit plans as per actuarial valuation are as below: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars

Funded Plan

Unfunded Plans
Post retirement
medical

Gratuity

v

Post retirement
housing allowance

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

Defined benefit obligation....................................................................

933.58

910.20

47.93

44.66

112.15

117.11

Fair value of plan assets.......................................................................

929.95

907.24

—

—

—

—

Surplus/(Deficit)...........................................................................................

(3.63)

(2.96)

(47.93)

(44.66)

(112.15)

(117.11)

Current portion of the above............................................................

—

—

(2.59)

(2.23)

(8.85)

(8.85)

Non current portion of the above.................................................

(3.63)

(2.96)

(45.34)

(42.43)

(103.30)

(108.26)

Net defined benefit obligation

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Discount rate.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7.45%

6.95%

Attrition rate..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

12.50%

12.50%

Cost inflation.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7 - 9%

7 - 9%

One percentage point increase in discount rate..........................................................................................................................................

(72.60)

(73.05)

One percentage point decrease in discount rate........................................................................................................................................

83.63

84.48

One percentage point increase in Salary growth rate............................................................................................................................

66.62

66.49

One percentage point decrease in Salary growth rate..........................................................................................................................

(59.48)

(59.07)

One percentage point increase in attrition rate..........................................................................................................................................

(5.09)

(5.50)

One percentage point decrease in attrition rate.........................................................................................................................................

5.66

6.13

One percentage point increase in medical inflation rate.......................................................................................................................

5.03

4.85

One percentage point decrease in medical inflation rate.....................................................................................................................

(4.36)

(4.18)

Upto 1 year............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

169.57

164.91

1 to 5 years...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

483.19

444.86

6 to 9 years...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

401.83

381.82

10 years and above..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,174.24

1,101.64

Particulars
Actuarial Assumptions and Sensitivity
vi

Actuarial assumptions

vii Quantitative sensitivity analysis for impact of significant assumptions on defined benefit
obligation are as below:

viii Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation

			The estimate of future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant
factors such as supply and demand in the employment market.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

276

35. Employee Benefits (contd.)
B.

Trust-managed Provident fund:

Rupees crores

Particulars
i

ii

2023

2022

Defined benefit obligation..........................................................................................................................................................................................

3,355.68

3,004.62

Fair value of plan assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................

3,190.06

3,004.62

Surplus/(Deficit).................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(165.62)

—

Discount rate.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7.45%

6.95%

Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio (years)................................................................................................................

5.35

4.63

Guaranteed rate of returns.......................................................................................................................................................................................

8.15%

8.10%

Net defined benefit obligation

Actuarial assumptions

			The Company has recognised an obligation of Rs. 165.62 crores (2022: Nil) on account of interest rate guarantee through OCI.
			

The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds.

			The Company’s contribution to Provident Fund and Superannuation fund aggregating Rs. 180.93 crores (2022 : Rs. 169.48 crores) has been
recognised in Profit or Loss under the head Employee Benefits Expense.
36. Employee Stock Option Plan
	The Company has allotted 55,24,219 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 10 each, 10,00,000 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 10 each, 1,73,53,034 Ordinary
(Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each, 19,11,628 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each and 52,00,000 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each in the years ended
31st March, 2002, 31st March, 2010, 31st March, 2011, 31st March, 2014 and 31st March, 2015 respectively to the Mahindra & Mahindra Employees’ Stock
Option Trust (“M&M ESOP Trust”) set up by the Company. The Trust holds these shares for the benefit of the employees and issues them to the eligible
employees as per the recommendations of the Compensation Committee.
	Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - 2000 (“2000 Scheme”) vest in 4 equal instalments on the expiry
of 12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 48 months from the date of grant. The options may be exercised on any day over a period of five years from
the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a minimum of 50 or number of options vested whichever is lower.
Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - 2010 (“2010 Scheme”) vest in
i)

5 equal instalments on the expiry of 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, 48 months and 60 months or

ii)

5 equal instalments on the expiry of 36 months, 48 months, 60 months, 72 months and 84 months or

iii)	4 instalments bifurcated as 20% on the expiry of 18 months, 20% on the expiry of 30 months, 30% on the expiry of 42 months and 30% on the
expiry of 54 months or
iv)

4 equal instalments on the expiry of 12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 48 months or

v)

3 instalments bifurcated as 33.33% on the expiry of 12 months, 33.33% on the expiry of 24 months and 33.34% on the expiry of 36 months. or

vi)

2 instalments bifurcated as 50% on the expiry of 12 months and 50% on the expiry of 24 months or

vii)

2 instalments bifurcated as 40% on the expiry of 36 months and 60% on the expiry of 60 months

	The exercise period of above options range from 1 year to 6 years from the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a
minimum of 50 or number of options vested whichever is lower.
Summary of stock options
Particulars

No. of stock
options

Weighted average
exercise price (Rs.)

Options outstanding on 1st April, 2022................................................................................................................................................

59,16,500

4.66

Options granted during the year..............................................................................................................................................................

12,79,379

5.00

Options forfeited/lapsed during the year...........................................................................................................................................

3,02,061

4.44

Options exercised during the year..........................................................................................................................................................

11,80,694

4.09

Options outstanding on 31 Mar 2023...............................................................................................................................................

57,13,124

3.67

Options vested but not exercised on 31st Mar 2023................................................................................................................

20,32,636

4.36

st

277

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

36. Employee Stock Option Plan (contd.)
Average share price on the date of exercise of the options are as under
Date of exercise

Weighted average
share price (Rs.)

01st April, 2022 to 21st March, 2023.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,217.04

Information in respect of options outstanding as at 31st March, 2023
Range of exercise price

Number of
options

Weighted average
remaining life

Rs. 2.50....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

5,07,253

1.87 years

Rs. 5.00....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

52,05,871

4.58 years

No. of Years
vesting

Fair value per
option

27th May, 2022.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

3 years

Rs. 886.37

04th August, 2022................................................................................................................................................................................................

4 years

Rs. 1,201.91

10th November, 2022........................................................................................................................................................................................

3 years

Rs. 1,294.00

10th February, 2023...........................................................................................................................................................................................

2 years

Rs. 1,320.57

* 23rd February, 2023........................................................................................................................................................................................

2 - 5 years

Rs. 1,275.83

The fair values of options granted during the year are as follows:
Grant Date

The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Options Pricing Model and the significant assumptions made in this regard are as follows :
Grant date & Vesting period
Particulars

27th May,2022 4th August, 2022
10th Nov, 2022 10th February, 2023 *23rd February, 2023
(3 years vesting) (4 years vesting) (3 years vesting)
(2 years vesting) (2-5 years vesting)

Risk free interest rate..................................................

6.73%

6.90%

7.11%

7.28%

6.80% - 7.02%

Expected life.......................................................................

4 years

4 years

4 years

6 years

0.55 - 5.36 years

Expected volatility..........................................................

37.59%

36.07%

37.34%

33.23%

33.62% - 46.04%

Expected dividend yield................................................

1.24%

0.92%

0.86%

0.64%

0.96%

Exercise Price (Rs.) ......................................................

5

5

5

5

5

Stock Price (Rs.) ............................................................

886.37

1,201.91

1,294.00

1,320.57

1,275.83

In respect of Options granted under the Employee Stock Option Plan the accounting is done as per requirements of Ind AS 102. Consequently,
salaries, wages, bonus etc. includes Rs. 106.63 crores (2022 : Rs. 80.47 crores) being expenses on account of share based payments, after adjusting
for reversals on account of options forfeited. The amount excludes Rs. 4.94 crores (2022 : Rs. 5.40 crores) charged to its subsidiaries for options
issued to their employees.
* pursuant to the scheme of merger of Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (MEML), the Company has issued 14,042 employee stock options in
replacement of MEML stock options.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

278

37. Capital Management
	The Company’s capital management strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. The same is
done through a mix of either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term/long term debt as may be appropriate.
	The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of its product, capital expenditure, operations and strategic investment plans. The
same is funded through a combination of capital sources be it either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term/long
term debt as may be appropriate.
The capital structure is monitored on the basis of net debt to equity and maturity profile of overall debt portfolio of the Company.
Net Debt and Equity is given in the table below :
Rupees crores
Particulars
Total Shareholders’ Equity as reported in Balance Sheet...........................................................................................................................

2023

2022

43,356.73

38,198.05

2,312.17

816.24

Net Debt
Short term debt......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Long term debt........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,331.56

5,681.53

Gross Debt

4,643.73

6,497.77

Current investments.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

9,548.01

7,902.06

Cash and Bank Balances...................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,890.01

4,071.76

Less:

Net Debt.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(9,794.29)

(5,476.05)

Total Capital deployed................................................................................................................................................................................................................

33,562.44

32,722.00

38. Financial instruments
Financial Risk Management Framework
	In the course of its business, the Company is exposed to certain financial risks namely credit risk, interest risk, currency risk & liquidity risk. The Company’s
primary focus is to achieve better predictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects on its financial performance.
The financial risks are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policy which has been approved by its Board of Directors.
1.

Market Risk Management

		Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates etc. could affect the Company’s income or the
value of its holdings of financial instruments including cash flow. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk
exposures within acceptable parameters, while maximising the return.
		

(a)

Currency Risk

			The Company’s exposure to currency risk relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities including anticipated sales, purchases and
borrowings where the transactions are denominated in a currency other than the Company’s functional currency.
			The Company’s foreign currency exposures are managed in accordance with its Foreign Exchange Risk Management Policy which has been
approved by its Board of Directors. The Company hedges its foreign currency risk mainly by way of Forward Covers. Other derivative instruments
may be used if deemed appropriate.
			

The carrying amounts of the Company’s foreign currency exposure at the end of the reporting period are as follows :
Rupees crores
Particulars

US Dollar

Euro

KRW

Others

Total

Financial assets.............................................................................

764.61

1,668.19

—

727.62

3,160.42

Financial liabilities.......................................................................

429.18

60.19

2.06

94.13

585.56

Financial assets.............................................................................

1,222.92

1,568.76

454.72

281.03

3,527.43

Financial liabilities.......................................................................

416.43

54.83

22.31

113.74

607.31

As at 31 March, 2023
st

As at 31st March, 2022

279

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

38. Financial instruments (contd.)
1. Market Risk Management (contd.)
			Hedge Accounting - Forwards
			Contracts that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are accounted as per the hedge accounting requirements of Ind AS 109 - Financial
Instruments, while other contracts are accounted as derivatives measured through profit or loss (FVTPL).
			

Details of Forward Foreign Currency Contracts outstanding at the end of reporting period
Outstanding Contracts

Rupees crores

2023

2022

Notional
value

Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities)

Notional
value

Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities)

Cash Flow Hedges
Sell currency
—

EUR............................................................................................................

1,583.47

(54.40)

1,487.41

189.37

—

USD............................................................................................................

295.89

(1.54)

583.54

7.93

—

ZAR............................................................................................................

212.50

(0.09)

368.33

(20.98)

—

AUD............................................................................................................

88.36

1.59

—

—

—

BRL.............................................................................................................

—

—

7.97

(0.42)

Total......................................................................................................................

(54.44)

175.90

There are no significant transactions of hedges which are ineffective.
The Company also has outstanding forward exchange contracts that are not accounted as hedges.
Notional value of the same is as given below:Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

—

246.40

Sell currency
Maturing less than 1 year
—

USD...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Buy currency
—

JPY/INR..................................................................................................................................................................................................................

68.05

—

—

EUR/INR.................................................................................................................................................................................................................

13.00

—

—

28.02

Cross Currency hedge
—

USD/JPY................................................................................................................................................................................................................

		
(b) Interest Rate Risk
			The Company uses a mix of cash and borrowings to manage the liquidity & fund requirements of its day-to-day operations. Further, certain
interest bearing liabilities carry variable interest rates.
			

Interest Rate risk on variable rate borrowings is managed by way of interest rate swaps.

			There are no significant transactions of hedges which are ineffective.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

280

38. Financial instruments (contd.)
1. Market Risk Management (contd.)
		

(c)

The movements in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve for instruments designated in a cash flow hedge are as follows:
Particulars

2023

Rupees crores
2022

Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges

Interest
Rate Risk
hedges

Total

Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges

Interest
Rate Risk
hedges

Total

Gross

(7.06)

—

(7.06)

(12.43)

(0.72)

(13.15)

Deferred tax

1.77

—

1.77

3.12

0.18

3.30

Balance as at the beginning of the
year (net)................................................................................

(5.29)

—

(5.29)

(9.31)

(0.54)

(9.85)

(Gains)/Losses transferred to Profit or Loss
on occurrence of the forecast transaction....

6.24

—

6.24

(27.36)

0.72

(26.64)

Change in Fair Value of Effective Portion of
cash flow hedges...............................................................

10.40

—

10.40

32.73

—

32.73

Total...........................................................................................

16.64

—

16.64

5.37

0.72

6.09

Deferred tax effect on above...................................

(4.19)

—

(4.19)

(1.35)

(0.18)

(1.53)

Gross

9.58

—

9.58

(7.06)

—

(7.06)

Deferred tax

(2.42)

—

(2.42)

1.77

—

1.77

7.16

—

7.16

(5.29)

—

(5.29)

Balance relating to continuing hedges.........................

7.16

—

7.16

(5.29)

—

(5.29)

Total...........................................................................................

7.16

—

7.16

(5.29)

—

(5.29)

Balance as at the beginning of
the year....................................................................................

Balance as at the end of the year....................................

Balance as at the end of the year (net).......................
Of the above:

		(d)

Sensitivity Analysis

			(i)

Foreign Currency Sensitivity

				The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
Rupees crores
Particulars

Year ended 31st March, 2023........................................................................

Year ended 31st March, 2022.............................................................................

Currency Change in rate

Effect on
profit before
tax

Effect on
pre-tax
equity

USD

10%

13.78

(16.22)

EUR

10%

2.45

—

USD

10%

35.91

(45.58)

EUR

10%

2.65

—

				The sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because the exposure at the end of the reporting period
does not reflect the exposure during the year.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

281

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

38. Financial instruments (contd.)
1.

Market Risk Management (contd.)

			(ii)

Interest Rate sensitivity

				The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on exposure to interest rate for both derivative and non-derivative
instruments at the end of reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding
at the end of the reporting period, was outstanding for the whole year.
				The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings
affected, after the impact of hedge accounting. With all other variables held constant, the Company’s profit before tax is affected through
the impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars

Year ended 31st March, 2023........................................................................
Year ended 31st March, 2022.............................................................................
2.

Currency

Increase/
decrease in
basis points

Effect on
profit before
tax

Effect on
pre-tax
equity

EUR
INR
EUR
INR

+25
+25
+25
+25

—
2.00
—
5.24

—
—
—
—

Credit Risk Management

		Credit Risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company. The Company
has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating
the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Company’s exposure are continuously monitored.
		(a)

Financial Guarantees

			
In addition, the Company is exposed to credit risk in relation to financial guarantees given to banks. The Company’s maximum exposure in
this respect is the maximum amount, the Company would have to pay, if the guarantee is called on. Financial guarantees are accounted as
explained in note 2 (k). The amount recognised in Balance Sheet as liabilities and maximum exposure details are as given below:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Maximum exposure....................................................................................................................................................................................................
Amount recognised as liability ........................................................................................................................................................................
		(b)

2023

2022

697.33
15.86

889.42
20.50

Trade Receivables

			The Company applies the simplified approach to provide for expected credit losses prescribed by Ind AS 109, which permits the use of the
lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables. The Company has computed expected credit losses based on a provision matrix
which uses historical credit loss experience of the Company. Forward-looking information (including macroeconomic information) has been
incorporated into the determination of expected credit losses. The Company has taken dealer deposits, bank guarantees etc. which are
considered as collateral and these are considered in determination of expected credit losses, where applicable.
			

Amounts pertaining to these collaterals are as given below:Rupees crores
Particulars
Dealer Deposits.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Bank Guarantees..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Others (including Letter of Credit)..................................................................................................................................................................

			

2022

15.43
765.44
74.23

11.03
752.11
87.51

Reconciliation of loss allowance for Trade Receivables:
Particulars
Balance as at beginning of the year.........................................................................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations [Refer note 44 (B)]..............................................................................................
Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................
Amounts written off during the year.............................................................................................................................................................
Amount of loss reversed/written back..........................................................................................................................................................
Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................

			

2023

Rupees crores
2023

2022

(239.15)
—
(52.62)
46.49
18.68
(226.60)

(228.36)
(10.93)
(34.35)
1.88
32.61
(239.15)

The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of Financial Guarantee contracts are disclosed in Note 38 - 3(a).

			In respect of other financial assets, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each
class of financial assets.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

282

38. Financial instruments (contd.)
3.
		

Liquidity Risk Management
(a)

Maturity profile of non-derivative financial liabilities

			The following tables detail the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment
periods. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the
Company can be required to pay. The tables include both interest and principal cash flows.
Rupees crores
Particulars

Less than
1 Year

1-3 Years

3 Years to
5 Years

5 Years and
above

Short term borrowings - Principal.............................................................................

2,312.17

—

—

—

Short term borrowings - Interest...............................................................................

17.29

—

—

—

Long term borrowings - Principal...............................................................................

—

1,276.01

555.55

500.00

Long term borrowings - Interest.................................................................................

162.41

232.60

113.04

1,683.68

Lease liabilities.........................................................................................................................

127.96

204.50

72.88

29.27

Trade payables..........................................................................................................................

17,145.62

—

—

—

As at 31st March, 2023

Other Financial Liabilities.................................................................................................

1,350.57

221.76

96.92

319.92

Financial Guarantees............................................................................................................

697.33

—

—

—

Total................................................................................................................................................

21,813.35

1,934.87

838.39

2,532.87

Short term borrowings - Principal.............................................................................

816.24

—

—

—

Short term borrowings - Interest...............................................................................

14.38

—

—

—

Long term borrowings - Principal...............................................................................

—

3,643.15

1,511.83

526.55

Long term borrowings - Interest.................................................................................

358.42

380.14

155.29

1,730.94

Lease liabilities.........................................................................................................................

85.74

126.74

48.31

23.61

Trade payables..........................................................................................................................

12,970.13

—

—

—

Other Financial Liabilities.................................................................................................

1,183.78

222.84

123.05

286.97

Financial Guarantees............................................................................................................

889.42

—

—

—

Total................................................................................................................................................

16,318.12

4,372.87

1,838.48

2,568.07

As at 31 March, 2022
st

			The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Company could be forced to settle under
the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations
at the end of the reporting period, the Company considers that it is more likely than not that such an amount will not be payable under
the arrangement.
		

(b)

Maturity profile of derivative financial liabilities

			The following table details the Company’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial liabilities other than derivatives on Interest in Subsidiaries,
Associates and Joint Ventures. When the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected
interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves at the end of the reporting period.
Rupees crores
Particulars

Less than
1 Year

1-3 Years

3 Years to
5 Years

As at 31st March, 2023..............................................................................................................................................

89.23

—

—

As at 31 March, 2022..................................................................................................................................................

22.37

—

—

st

4.

Offsetting of balances: The Company has not offset financial assets and financial liabilities.

5.

Collaterals

		The Company has availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, some of which are
secured by hypothecation of book debts, receivables, outstanding monies and all other current assets.

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL

Financial
instruments
designated at
FVTOCI

Financial
instruments
designated at
FVTOCI

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTOCI

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTOCI

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTOCI

Financial
Liabilities

Financial
Assets

Financial
Liabilities

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

2)	Foreign currency forwards,
Options, Interest rate swaps &
Commodity derivatives

3)	Derivatives on Interest in
Subsidiaries, Associates and
Joint Ventures

4)	Derivatives on Interest in
Subsidiaries, Associates and
Joint Ventures

5)	Investment in Market Linked
Debentures

6)	Investment in Mutual Funds
and Alternate Investment
Fund

7)	Investment in equity
instruments -Quoted

8)	Equity investments-Unquoted

9)	Investment in Government
Securities

10)	Investments in Debentures/
Bonds

11)	Equity investments-Quoted

12)	Commercial Papers and
Certificate of Deposits

13)	Investments in Optionally
Convertible Cumulative
Redeemable Preference
Shares/Optionally Convertible
Debentures/Bonds
92.57

2,316.59

Level 1

38.86

852.20

Level 3

Level 1

— Level 1

31.09

Level 1

Level 3

Level 1

Level 1

Discounted Cash Flow
method

Market price

Quoted market price

Quoted market price

Quoted market price

Discounted Cash Flow Income
Approach

Quoted bid price in active
market

Net Asset value

For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions.

—

—

—

Not applicable as Level 1 hierarchy

For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions.

—

—

—

For Comparable Companies Method/Comparable Companies
Quoted multiples - compares the price for which comparable
companies are traded on the capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions.

For Comparable Companies Method/Comparable Companies
Quoted multiples - compares the price for which comparable
companies are traded on the capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial projections.
These include forecasts of balance sheet, statement of profit
and loss along with underlying assumptions.

Future cash flows are estimated based on forward exchange
rates (from observable forward exchange rates at the end of
the reporting period) and contract forward rates, discounted at
a rate that reflects the credit risk of various counter parties.

Future cash flows are estimated based on forward exchange
rates (from observable forward exchange rates at the end of
the reporting period) and contract forward rates, discounted at a
rate that reflects the credit risk of various counter parties.

Financial projections
and discount rates to
discount future cash
flows.

—

—

—

—

Financial projections
and discount rates to
discount future cash
flows.

—

—

—

Interest Rates to
discount future
cash flow, Financial
Projections

Interest Rates to
discount future cash
flow, market multiple
used for comparable
companies.

—

—

Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections etc.
would entail corresponding change in
the valuation of the equity component
and/or the debt component.

—

—

—

—

Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections
etc. would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of the
equity component and/or the debt
component.

—

—

—

Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections
etc. would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of derivatives
on interest in subsidiaries and
associates and joint ventures.

Any change (increase/decrease) in the
discount factor, financial projections
etc. would entail corresponding change
in the valuation of derivatives on
interest in subsidiaries and associates
and joint ventures.

—

—

Relationship of unobservable inputs
to fair value and sensitivity

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

172.14

24.85

4.99

35.07

1.23

6,785.52

Quoted market price

Comparable Companies
Method/Discounted Cash
Flow/Price of Recent
Transaction/Comparable
Companies Quoted multiples

Comparable Companies
Method/Discounted Cash
Flow/Price of Recent
Transaction/Comparable
Companies Quoted multiples

Discounted Cash Flow and
Interest Rate

Discounted Cash Flow

Significant
unobservable input(s)
for level 3 hierarchy

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

10.02

0.07

1.30

Level 3

Level 3

Level 2

— Level 1

56.61

91.91

22.37

Level 2

Key inputs (for level 2 and level 3)

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

6,868.06

100.53

28.51

28.20

89.23

2022
242.30

Valuation technique(s)

Rupees crores

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL

2023
20.80

Fair value
hierarchy

For Level 3 hierarchy
valuation

BOARD’S
REPORT

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL/
FVTOCI

Financial
instruments
measured at FVTPL/
FVTOCI

Financial
Assets

1)	Foreign currency forwards,
Options, Interest rate swaps &
Commodity derivatives

Category

Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities

Applicable for Level 2 and Level 3 hierarchy

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

Particulars
Fair Value

Fair Value Disclosures
(a) Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items

Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items

6.

38. Financial instruments (contd.)

283
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

284

38. Financial instruments (contd.)
6. Fair Value Disclosures (contd.)
		
(a) Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items (contd.)
			
Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial instruments measured at fair value
Rupees crores
Particulars

Unquoted Equity
investment

Investments
Derivatives
in Optionally
on Interest in
Convertible
Subsidiaries,
Preference
Associates and
Joint Ventures Shares/Optionally
Convertible
(Net)
Debentures

Total

Year Ended 31st March, 2023
35.07

35.30

38.86

109.23

	(a)	unrealised gains or losses during the Year
related to assets & liabilities existing on balance
sheet date ......................................................................................

—

(41.32)

(604.00)

(645.32)

(b)	gain or loss realised during the year for assets
& liabilities disposed, settled etc.....................................

—

5.72

—

5.72

—

—

657.71

657.71

10.00

—

—

10.00

—	disposals/contracts realised during the
year.........................................................................................

(45.00)

—

—

(45.00)

Closing balance of fair value.................................................................

0.07

(0.30)

92.57

92.34

65.62

(11.42)

46.29

100.49

(a)	unrealised gains or losses during the year
related to assets & liabilities existing on balance
sheet date .......................................................................................

(0.09)

(3.32)

(7.43)

(10.84)

(b)	gain or loss realised during the year for assets
& liabilities disposed, settled, etc....................................

—

50.04

—

50.04

Opening balance of fair value..............................................................
Total incomes/gains or losses recognised:
—

in profit or loss

		
—

—	purchases/contracts entered during the
year.........................................................................................

in other comprehensive income
Fair value of—	gain or loss realised during the year for assets
& liabilities disposed, settled etc.....................................

		

Year Ended 31 March, 2022
st

Opening balance of fair value..............................................................
Total incomes/gains or losses recognised:
—

—

in profit or loss

in other comprehensive income

Fair value of—	unrealised gains or losses during the year related to
assets & liabilities existing on balance sheet date........

(30.46)

—

—

(30.46)

Closing balance of fair value.................................................................

35.07

35.30

38.86

109.23

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

285

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

38. Financial instruments (contd.)
6. Fair Value Disclosures (contd.)
		
(b) Financial Instruments not measured using Fair Value i.e. measured using amortized cost
Rupees crores
Particulars

Carrying
Value

Fair value
(Level 2)

As at 31st March, 2023
Non Current Borrowings
—

Debentures.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,471.24

1,409.18

—

Term Loans.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

600.00

600.00

—

Other loans......................................................................................................................................................................................................

260.32

222.59

As at 31st March, 2022
Non Current Borrowings
—

Debentures.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,467.38

3,514.17

—

Term Loans.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,841.67

1,841.67

—

Other loans......................................................................................................................................................................................................

372.48

319.89

Except for the above, carrying value of Other financial assets/liabilities represent reasonable estimate of fair value.
		

There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.

39. Related Party Disclosures:
(a)

Related parties where control exists:

		Subsidiaries:
Sr. No. Name of the entity

Sr. No. Name of the entity

1

Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited

23

Ryono Asset Management Co., Limited

2

NBS International Limited

24

Mahindra Mexico S. De. R. L. (Under Liquidation)

3

Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited

25

Mahindra Do Brasil Industrial Ltda.

4

Mahindra Europe S.R.L.

26

Erkunt Traktor Sanayii Anonim Şirketi

5

Mahindra And Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary) Limited

27

Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi

6

Mahindra West Africa Limited (upto 4th January, 2023)

28

Sampo Rosenlew Oy (w.e.f. 22nd July, 2022)

7

Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited

29

Swaraj Engines Limited (w.e.f. 28th September, 2022)

8

Automobili Pininfarina GmbH

30

M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (w.e.f 17th March, 2023)

9

Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc.

31

Kota Farm Services Limited

10

Mahindra Automotive North America Inc.

32

Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited

11

Mahindra Vehicle Sales And Service Inc.

33

Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited

12

Mahindra North American Technical Center, Inc.

34

Mahindra HZPC Private Limited

13

Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited (upto 13th March, 2023)

35

Mahindra Fruits Private Limited

14

Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (w.e.f. 25th October, 2022)

36

15

Gromax Agri Equipment Limited

Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution Holding Company (Europe) B.V.
(upto 27th February, 2023)

16

Trringo.Com Limited

37

OFD Holding B.V. (upto 20th April, 2022)

17

Mahindra USA Inc.

38

Origin Direct Asia Ltd. (upto 20th April, 2022)

18

Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co., Limited

39

Origin Fruit Direct B.V. (upto 20th April, 2022)

19

Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Limited

40

Origin Fruit Services South America Spa (upto 20th April, 2022)

20

Ryono Factory Co., Limited

41

Origin Direct Asia (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd.
(upto 20th April, 2022)

21

Ryono Engineering Co., Limited

42

Merakisan Private Limited (upto 7th September, 2022)

22

Dia Computer Service Co., Limited

43

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

286

39. Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(a) Related parties where control exists: (contd.)
		Subsidiaries: (contd.)
Sr. No. Name of the entity
44

Fifth Gear Ventures Limited

45

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited ESOP Trust

46

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited

47

Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited

48

Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited

49

Mahindra Finance CSR Foundation

50

MRHFL Employee Welfare Trust (ESOP)

51

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited ESOP Trust

52

Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited

53

Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited

54

Mahindra Infrastructure Developers Limited

55

Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited

56

Knowledge Township Limited

57

Sr. No. Name of the entity
80

Kiinteistö Oy Mällösniemi
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

81

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt 1
(formerly known as Supermarket Capri Oy)

82

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt 1
(merged with Supermarket Capri Oy w.e.f. 8th April, 2022)

83

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta 1
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

84

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta 2
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

85

Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts 2
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

86

Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts 3
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

87

Mahindra Integrated Township Limited (merged with Mahindra
World City Developers Limited w.e.f 31st December, 2022)

Kiinteistö Oy Tenetinlahti
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

88

58

Mahindra Residential Developers Limited (merged with Mahindra
World City Developers Limited w.e.f 31st December, 2022)

Kiinteistö Oy Tiurunniemi
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

89

59

Industrial Township (Maharashtra) Limited

Kiinteistö Oy Vanha Ykköstii
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

60

Anthurium Developers Limited

90

Ownership Services Sweden Ab

61

Mahindra Water Utilities Limited

91

Are Villa 3 Ab

62

Rathna Bhoomi Enterprises Private Limited

92

Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre

63

Deep Mangal Developers Private Limited

93

Holiday Club Sport And Spahotels Ab

64

Moonshine Construction Private Limited

94

Holiday Club Resorts Rus LLC

65

Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited

95

Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L.U.

66

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited

96

Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing S.L.U.

67

Mahindra Hotels and Residences India Limited

97

Holiday Club Canarias Resort Management S.L.U.

68

Gables Promoters Private Limited

98

Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club S.L.U.

69

Heritage Bird (M) Sdn. Bhd.

99

Arabian Dreams Hotel Apartments LLC

70

Infinity Hospitality Group Company Limited

100

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited ESOP Trust

71

MH Boutique Hospitality Limited

101

72

MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts Harihareshwar Limited
(w.e.f. 23rd August, 2022)

73

Covington S.a.r.l.

102

Guestline Hospitality Management And Development Services
Limited (w.e.f 2nd December, 2022)

74

HCR Management Oy
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 28th February, 2023)

103

Mahindra Logistics Limited

75

Holiday Club Resorts Oy

104

Lords Freight (India) Private Limited

76

Kiinteistö Oy Himos Gardens
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

105

2 X 2 Logistics Private Limited

106

77

Kiinteistö Oy Katinnurkka
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

MLL Express Services Private Limited (formerly known as Meru
Travel Solutions Private Limited)

107

MLL Mobility Private Limited (formerly known as Meru Mobility
Tech Private Limited)

78

Kiinteistö Oy Kuusamon Pulkkajärvi 1
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

108

V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited

79

Kiinteistö Oy Kylpyläntorni 1
(merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy w.e.f. 1st April, 2022)

109

V-Link Automotive Services Private Limited

110

V-Link Freight Services Private Limited (w.e.f 9th September, 2022)

287

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

39. Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(a) Related parties where control exists: (contd.)
		Subsidiaries: (contd.)
Sr. No. Name of the entity

Sr. No. Name of the entity
111

MLL Global Logistics Limited (w.e.f 6 December, 2022)

147

PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia

112

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.A.R.L.

th

148

Mahindra Defence Systems Limited

113

st

Peugeot Motocycles Deutschland Gmbh (upto 31 January, 2023)

149

Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring FZ-LLC

114

Peugeot Motocycles Italia S.P.A. (Under Liquidation)
(upto 31st January, 2023)

150

Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordan, LLC.

115

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (upto 31st January, 2023)

151

Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited
(w.e.f. 17th June, 2022)

116

PMTC Engineering SPA (upto 31st January, 2023)

117

Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc.(upto 20th October, 2022)

152

Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

118

Bristlecone Limited

153

Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

119

Bristlecone Consulting Limited

154

Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

120

Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

155

Gipps Aero Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

121

Bristlecone International Ag

156

Airvan Flight Services Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

122

Bristlecone UK Limited

157

GA8 Airvan Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

123

Bristlecone Inc.

158

GA200 Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

124

Bristlecone Middle East Dmcc

159

Nomad Tc Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

125

Bristlecone India Limited

160

Airvan 10 Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023)

126

Bristlecone GmbH

161

Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited (upto 16th March, 2023)

127

Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited

162

Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited ESOP Trust
(upto 16th March, 2023)

128

Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica Limited

163

Mahindra Namaste Limited (upto 16th March, 2023)

129

Mahindra Susten Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022)

164

Mahindra Airways Limited

130

Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)

131

Neo Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)

165

Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited

132

Astra Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)

166

Mahindra Holdings Limited

133

Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)

167

Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited

134

MSPL International DMCC (upto 22nd December, 2022)

168

Mahindra Racing UK Limited

135

Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

169

Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private Limited

170

Mahindra Emarket Limited

136

Martial Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)

171

Mahindra Construction Company Limited

137

Mahindra Teqo Private Limited

172

Officemartindia.com Limited

138

Mahindra Solarize Private Limited

173

Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited

139

Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited (w.e.f. 29 August, 2022)

174

Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited

140

Emergent Solren Private Limited (w.e.f 9 November, 2022)

175

Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Private Limited

141

Mahindra Accelo Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Intertrade Limited)

176

New Democratic Electoral Trust

142

Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited

177

Sunrise Initiatives Trust

143

Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited

178

Mumbai Mantra Media Limited

144

Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited

179

Mahindra Marine Private Limited

145

Mahindra Middleeast Electrical Steel Service Centre (FZC)

180

M&M Benefit Trust

146

Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited

181

Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust

nd

th

th

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

288

39. Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(b) Other parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year:
		(i) Associates :
Sr. No. Name of the entity
1
Aurangabad Electricals, Limited
2
Born Commerce Private Limited
3
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited
4
Comviva Technologies Limited
5
Golde Bengaluru India Private Limited
6
Golde Pune Automotive India, Private Limited
7
Golde Wuhan Co., Ltd
8
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
9
Mahindra Educational Institutions
10
Mahindra Finance USA LLC
		(ii) Joint Ventures :

Sr. No.
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19

Name of the entity
Medwell Ventures Private Limited
Participaciones Internacionales Autometal Dos S.L.
PF Holdings B.V.
PSL Media & Communications Limited
ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited
Satyam Venture Engineering Services Private Limited
Swaraj Engines Limited (upto 27th September, 2022)
Tech Mahindra Business Services Limited
Tech Mahindra Limited

Sr. No.
1
2
3
4

Sr. No.
15
16
17
18

Name of the entity
Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, 2022)
Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited
Mahindra Susten Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, 2022)
Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited
(upto 16th June, 2022)
Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited
Mahindra World City Developers Limited
Mahindra-Bt Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited
Martial Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, 2022)
Marvel Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)
Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (w.e.f. 23rd December, 2022)
Sampo Rosenlew Oy (upto 21st July, 2022)
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited

5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
		

Name of the entity
Carnot Technologies Private Limited
Classic Legends Private Limited
Gippsaero Pty Ltd (upto 28th March, 2023)
M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited
(upto 16th March, 2023)
Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (upto 28th March, 2023)
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (upto 28th March, 2023)
Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited (upto 28th March, 2023)
Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited
Mahindra Homes Private Limited
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited
Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited
Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited
(iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP) :

Sr. No.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
		

Name of KMP
Designation
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Chairman
Dr. Anish Shah
Managing Director and CEO
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sectors)
Mrs. Nisaba Godrej
Independent Director
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
Independent Director
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
Independent Director
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Independent Director
Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Independent Director
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
Nominee Director
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Independent Director
Mrs. Shikha Sharma
Independent Director
Mr. C. P. Gurnani
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
(iv) Close member of KMP and entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP :

Sr. No.
1
2
3
Sr. No.
1
2

Close member of KMP
Mrs. Anuradha Mahindra
Mrs. Radhika Nath
Dr. T. N. Gajendran
Entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP
The Indian & Eastern Engineer Company Private Limited
Harulika Ventures LLP

		

(v)

19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27

Sr. No. Entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP
3
Araku Originals Private Limited

Entity belonging to Promoter/Promoter Group holding 10% or more in the Company :

Sr. No. Name of the entity
1
Prudential Management & Services Private Limited
		
(vi) Welfare Funds / Post-Employment benefit plans :
Sr. No.
1
2
3
4

Name of the Fund
M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. 1
M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. 2
M&M Employees’ Welfare Fund No. 3
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Gratuity scheme

Sr. No.
5
6
7
8

Name of the Fund
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff Provident Fund
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited Staff & Workmen's Superannuation Scheme
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited Superannuation Scheme
Mahindra World School Education Trust

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

289

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

39. Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c)

The related party transactions are as under:
Rupees crores

Sr.
No.

Nature of Transactions

1.

Purchases:
Goods.............................................................

Services........................................................

Property, Plant and Equipment...

Intangible Assets....................................

2.

Property, Plant and Equipment...

Intangible Assets....................................

Services........................................................

Entity
Close
members belonging to
Promoter/
of KMP and
Promoter
Entities
Group
controlled/
jointly holding 10%
or more in
controlled by
KMP the Company

Welfare
Funds /
PostEmployment
benefit
plans

2023

3,682.79

3,132.89

15.75

—

—

—

—

2022

1,905.37

2,736.66

11.30

—

—

—

—

2023

3,210.05

74.37

23.79

—

—

—

—

2022

2,371.79

119.03

5.92

—

—

—

—

2023

25.12

1.12

0.03

—

—

—

—

2022

2.18

1.76

0.04

—

—

—

—

2023

209.25

0.07

—

—

—

—

—

2022

199.34

3.23

—

—

—

—

—

2023

3,877.30

8.97

862.70

—

—

—

—

2022

2,196.33

1.68

732.66

—

—

—

—

2023

406.30

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

42.66

0.01

—

—

—

—

—

2023

860.98

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

7.13

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

85.19

7.24

32.66

—

—

—

—

2022

82.08

1.65

31.30

—

0.53

—

—

2023

2,711.63

—

72.47

0.06

—

—

—

2022

593.80

14.47

110.50

—

—

—

—

2023

50.41

234.91

—

—

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

4.67

—

0.79

—

—

—

—

2022

0.34

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

16.16

3.14

0.42

—

—

—

—

2022

8.69

6.84

0.98

—

—

—

—

Investments:
Purchased/Subscribed/
Conversion/Bonus..................................

Sold/Redeemed/Tendered under
merger scheme.......................................

4.

KMP

Sales:
Goods.............................................................

3.

For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March

Deputation of Personnel:
From Parties.............................................

To Parties....................................................

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

290

39. Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c)

The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores

Sr.
No.

Nature of Transactions

5.

Managerial Remuneration...............

6.

7.

8.

9.

Stock Options..........................................

Commission and other benefits
to Non-executive/independent
directors (including nominee
directors) **........................................................

Others (Sitting Fees) #............................

KMP

Entity
Close
members belonging to
Promoter/
of KMP and
Promoter
Entities
Group
controlled/
jointly holding 10%
or more in
controlled by
KMP the Company

Welfare
Funds /
PostEmployment
benefit
plans

2023

—

—

—

27.21

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

38.54

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

6.98

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

5.18

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

3.89

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

3.89

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

0.14

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

1,507.47

—

542.00

—

—

—

—

2022

673.91

—

117.00

—

—

—

—

2023

318.50

—

130.62

0.61

—

—

5.00

2022

139.31

—

100.00

7.22

—

—

5.00

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

50.00

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

100.00

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

38.95

—

11.28

0.03

—

—

—

2022

41.85

—

8.11

0.11

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

0.66

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

372.06

1,235.08

—

—

—

—

—

2022

201.96

1,161.06

—

—

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

—

—

62.27

—

—

—

—

2023

97.56

—

—

2.15

0.65

163.46

1.48

2022

108.62

—

—

1.49

0.48

123.83

1.12

Finance:
Loans/Inter Corporate Deposits
given/rollover.............................................

Loans/Inter Corporate Deposits
refunded by parties.............................

Inter Corporate Deposit Taken....

Inter Corporate Deposit Taken
refunded to parties..............................

Interest Income.......................................

Interest Expenses..................................

Dividend received..................................

Share Application Money Given......

10.

For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March

Dividends Distributed..........................

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

291

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

39. Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c)

The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores

Sr.
No.

Nature of Transactions

11.

Guarantees Given..................................

12.

Other Expenses......................................

Reimbursements received from
parties...........................................................

Reimbursements made to
parties...........................................................

Entity
Close
members belonging to
Promoter/
of KMP and
Promoter
Entities
Group
controlled/
jointly holding 10%
or more in
controlled by
KMP the Company

Welfare
Funds /
PostEmployment
benefit
plans

2023

361.01

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

523.75

—

42.25

—

—

—

—

2023

169.62

2.99

11.91

—

0.50

—

—

2022

110.92

15.73

17.29

—

*

—

—

2023

235.76

94.78

5.04

—

0.21

—

321.28

2022

154.37

0.51

2.59

—

0.20

—

237.02

2023

121.69

38.22

22.83

—

0.02

—

42.41

2022

93.67

9.29

15.70

—

0.02

—

40.53

2023

46.79

0.68

6.01

—

—

—

—

2022

37.62

0.97

2.27

—

—

—

—

2023

1,095.29

414.36

1.75

*

0.03

—

—

2022

637.11

415.29

3.17

3.18

0.05

—

—

2023

1,716.62

7.68

100.09

—

0.16

—

42.41

2022

900.48

8.22

28.03

—

0.01

—

21.45

2023

1,622.07

—

725.00

0.38

—

—

6.00

2022

2,088.03

—

18.94

0.96

—

—

11.00

2023

143.67

553.66

—

—

—

—

—

2022

325.19

521.98

42.25

—

—

—

—

Outstandings:
Trade and Other Payable.................

Trade and Other Receivable...........

Loans/Inter Corporate Deposits
outstanding................................................

14.

KMP

Other Transactions:
Other Income...........................................

13.

For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March

Guarantees given...................................

* denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.
** includes sitting fees and commission paid/payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a partner.
Transactions with related parties are at arm’s length.
# In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

292

39. Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
Details of related party transactions with Key Management Personnel are as under:
Sr.
No.

Nature of Transaction

Name of KMP

1.

Salary including perquisites.....................................................................................

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Dr. Pawan Goenka

Dr. Anish Shah

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

2.

Stock Options....................................................................................................................

Dr. Anish Shah

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

3.

Commission & Sitting fees........................................................................................

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Dr. Pawan Goenka

4.

Other Contribution to Funds...................................................................................

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Dr. Anish Shah

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

For the Year Ended
31st March

Rupees crores

2023

2.51

2022

11.67

2023

—

2022

5.85

2023

11.95

2022

8.77

2023

9.38

2022

6.91

2023

3.97

2022

2.64

2023

3.01

2022

2.54

2023

2.64

2022

4.18

2023

—

2022

0.02

2023

—

2022

0.38

2023

0.52

2022

0.48

2023

0.35

2022

0.28

293

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

40. Disclosure required under Section 186(4) of the Companies Act, 2013 for Loans and Guarantees (net of provision):
Rupees crores
Sr. Name
No.
1.

Relationship as per
Companies Act, 2013

2023

2022

Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited

Subsidiary of the Company

1,583.47

1,492.75

SsangYong Motor Company

Subsidiary of the Company

—

61.55

Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited

Subsidiary of the Company

34.00

15.00

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

Subsidiary of the Company

575.00

575.00

Classic Legends Private Limited

Subsidiary of the Company

150.00

17.00

Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited

Subsidiary of the Company

—

1.94

—

50.00

2,342.47

2,213.24

Inter Corporate deposits and Loans

Kotak Mahindra Investment Limited

Sr. Name
No.

2.

Relationship as per
Companies Act, 2013

2023

2022

Outstanding

Recognized
in Balance
Sheet

Outstanding

Recognized in
Balance Sheet

Guarantees
Mahindra Racing UK Limited

Subsidiary of the Company

20.38

—

—

—

Mahindra USA Inc.

Subsidiary of the Company

123.29

—

113.58

—

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.

Subsidiary of the Company

—

—

211.61

—

Sampo Rosenlew Oy

Associate of the Company

—

—

42.25

—

PF Holding B.V.

Associate of the Company

553.66

15.86

521.98

20.50

Note:-

a)	Inter corporate deposits given and repaid during the year amounting to Rs. 112.00 crores to Classic Legends Private Limited, Rs. 4.17 crores
To Mahindra Airways Limited and Rs. 34.33 crores to Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l.

		

b)	Above inter corporate deposits and loans have been given for general business purposes (including investment purposes) and guarantees have
been given against their borrowing obligation which have been taken for general corporate purpose.

		

c)

Refer note 8 for investments.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

294

41. Details of Investments made/Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given to intermediaries :
A.

Details of Investments made or Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given to Intermediaries :
Rupees crores
Name of Company

Date of transaction

Amount

Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited

Various

260.74

Mahindra Holdings Limited

Various

240.01

Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Private Limited

Various

13.39

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l.

20th January, 2023

34.33

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l.

30th January, 2023

657.71

Subsidiary Companies:

B.

Details of further Investments made or Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given by Intermediary to Ultimate Beneficiary:
Rupees crores
Name of intermediary

Name of ultimate beneficiary

Date of transaction

Amount

Subsidiary Companies

Subsidiary Companies

Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited

Automobili Pininfarina GmbH

various

260.74

Mahindra Holdings Limited

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited

various

240.01

Mahindra Telecom Energy Management
Services Private Limited

Mahindra Solarize Private Limited

various

7.39

Mahindra Telecom Energy Management
Services Private Limited

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

9th December, 2022

26.83

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l.

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.

20th January, 2023

34.33

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l.

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.

30th January, 2023

657.71

		Above transactions are in compliance with relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999), Companies Act, 2013
and Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002.
C.

Details of each Intermediary/Ultimate Beneficiary:
Name of Company

Registered address

Identification number
(CIN/Others)

Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Private Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U64204MH2017PLC296621
Limited
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India
Classic Legends Private Limited

Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U34101MH2015PTC265665
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India

Mahindra Solarize Private Limited

Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U40106MH2021PTC358435
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India

Mahindra Fruits Private Limited

Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U01403MH2014PTC255946
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India

Mahindra HZPC Private Limited

Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U01403MH2013PTC242474
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

295

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

41. Details of Investments made/Inter Corporate Deposits/Loans given to intermediaries : (contd.)
C.

Details of each Intermediary/Ultimate Beneficiary : (cont.)
Name of Company

Registered address

Identification number
(CIN/Others)

Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited

Mahindra Tower, G. M. Bhosale Marg, P.K. Kurne U01400MH2000PLC125781
Chowk, Worli, Mumbai, India

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

2nd Floor, Technosoft Knowledge Gateway, Wagle U74990MH2010PTC207854
Industrial Estate, Thane, India

Mega Suryaurja Private Limited

2nd Floor, Technosoft Knowledge Gateway, Wagle U40103MH2012PTC226016
Industrial Estate, Thane, India

Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited

2nd Floor, Technosoft Knowledge Gateway, Wagle U40108MH2013PTC250683
Industrial Estate, Thane, India

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l.

68-70, Boulevard de la Pétrusse L-2320, Luxembourg B 192 444

Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited

Sanne House, Twenty Eight, Bank Street, Mauritius

25074105

Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited Sanne House, Twenty Eight, Bank Street, Mauritius

27641607

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.

103 rue du 17 Novembre 25350 Mandeure, France

FR71875550667

Automobili Pininfarina GmbH

Dingolfinger Strade 9, 81673 Munchen, Germany

HRB 239596

Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc.

2901 Bayview Drive, Fremont, CA94538, USA

EIN: 46-2149883

Mahindra Automotive North America Inc.

275 Rex Blvd Auburn Hills Michigan 48326, USA

EIN 82-0974405

BSA Company Limited

Athenia House 10-14 Andover Road Winchester 01531594
Hampshire, United Kingdom

42. Segment information
Operating Segments
	The reportable segments of the Company are Automotive and Farm Equipment. The segments are largely organised and managed separately according
to the organisation structure that is designed based on the nature of products and services and profile of customers. Operating segments are reported
in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Executive Chairman and Managing Director jointly regarded as the Chief Operating
Decision Maker (“CODM”). Description of each of the reportable segments for all periods presented, is as under.
(a)

Automotive : This segment comprises of sale of automobiles, spares, mobility solutions, Construction Equipment and related services;

(b)

Farm Equipment : This segment comprises of sale of tractors, implements, spares and related services;

(c)

Others : This segment comprise of Powerol, Two Wheelers and Spares Business Unit.

	The CODM evaluates the Company’s performance and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance indicators by operating segments.
The CODM reviews revenue and gross profit as the performance indicator for all of the operating segments.
	The measurement of each segment’s revenues, expenses and assets is consistent with the accounting policies that are used in preparation of the financial
statements. Segment profit represents the profit before interest and tax.

51.58
58,511.20

Total Revenue...................................................................

2,852.90

Segment Result ...............................................................

1,582.14
6,548.64

Income Taxes........................................................................

Profit after tax.................................................................

3,501.82
2,680.85

Additions to non current assets.............................

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
expense....................................................................................
399.29

886.48

5,168.83

34.23

(64.82)

837.79

837.79

3,114.37

4,323.48

24,817.34

24,817.34

—

—

—

—

3,114.37

4,323.48

32,423.08

7,605.74

24,817.34

2,083.38

2,510.86

14,127.94

14,127.94

25,073.11

25,073.11

1,275.77

—

1,275.77

35,927.64

37.45

35,890.19

Automotive

343.11

740.37

4,098.62

4,098.62

8,425.23

8,425.23

3,579.89

—

3,579.89

19,766.83

196.51

19,570.32

Farm
Equipment

34.01

56.07

739.77

739.77

987.08

987.08

135.28

—

135.28

2,345.89

19.46

2,326.43

2,460.50

3,307.30

18,966.33

18,966.33

34,485.42

34,485.42

4,990.94

—

4,990.94

58,040.36

253.42

57,786.94

Other Total Segment

2022

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(253.42)

(253.42)

—

Eliminations

2,460.50

3,307.30

28,408.45

9,442.12

18,966.33

66,606.50

32,121.08

34,485.42

57,786.94

499.47

57,287.47

4,869.88

1,278.10

6,147.98

(208.67)

1,591.89

226.18

4,990.94

—

4,990.94

57,786.94

—

57,786.94

Total

Rupees crores

Note:Additions to non-current assets comprises of capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress, intangible assets including those under development and capital advances.

18,810.72

Total Liabilities.................................................................

5,168.83

18,810.72

Unallocated Corporate Liabilities

—

Segment Liabilities...........................................................

39,649.38

75,779.81

1,137.08

27,941.10

Total Assets........................................................................

10,571.20

36,130.43

39,649.38

Unallocated Corporate Assets..................................

Segment Assets..................................................................

OTHER INFORMATION

84,960.26

891.61

Total

84,068.65

Revenue from contracts with customers............

Revenue from other sources....................................

Out of total external revenue above:-

8,130.78

272.78

6,989.87

(896.84)

7,886.71

84,960.26

—

84,960.26

Total

Profit before tax.............................................................

—

—

—

—

(350.28)

(350.28)

—

Eliminations

(532.70)

39,649.38

6,989.87

(896.84)

7,886.71

85,310.54

350.28

84,960.26

Total
Segment

1,946.39

1,137.08

184.03

—

184.03

2,710.58

0.51

2,710.07

Other

2023

Exceptional items unallocable to segments..

10,571.20

3,952.94

—

3,952.94

24,088.76

298.19

23,790.57

Farm
Equipment

Unallocated corporate income net of
unallocated expenses.....................................................

Add:

Finance costs

27,941.10

(896.84)

Exceptional Item allocated to segments............

Less:

3,749.74

Segment Result..................................................................

Result

58,459.62

Inter Segment Revenue................................................

Automotive

External Revenue..............................................................

Revenue

Particulars

Operating Segments (contd.)
Information regarding the Company’s reportable segments is presented below:

42. Segment information (contd.)

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

296

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

297

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

42. Segment information (contd.)
Revenue from type of products and services
	The operating segments are primarily based on nature of products and services and hence the Revenue from external customers of each segment is
representative of revenue based on products and services.
Geographical Information:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

Revenue from External Customers................................

2022

Domestic

Overseas

Total

Domestic

Overseas

Total

79,914.37

5,045.89

84,960.26

53,890.79

3,896.15

57,786.94

comprising of:
–

Revenue from contracts with customers......

79,039.25

5,029.40

84,068.65

53,403.78

3,883.69

57,287.47

–

Revenue from other sources.................................

875.12

16.49

891.61

487.01

12.46

499.47

Non-Current Assets....................................................................

21,916.38

—

21,916.38

22,125.80

—

22,125.80

Domestic includes sales to customers located in India and service income accrued in India.
Overseas includes sales and services rendered to customers located outside India.
Information about major customers
	During the years ended 31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022 no revenues from transactions with a single external customer amount to 10% or more
of the Company’s revenues from external customers.
43. Contingent Liability & Commitments:
(A) Contingent Liability:
		

(a)

Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts comprise of:

			

(i)	Excise Duty, Sales Tax and Service Tax claims disputed by the Company relating to issues of applicability and classification aggregating
Rs. 2,979.46 crores (2022 : Rs. 1,258.47 crores) before tax.

			

(ii)

		

Taxation matters:

(b)

			

(i)	Demands against the Company not acknowledged as debts and not provided for, in respect of which the Company is in appeal and
exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed:

				
			

Other matters (excluding claims where amounts are not ascertainable) : Rs. 274.11 crores (2022 : Rs. 146.58 crores) before tax.

–

Income-tax : Rs. 1,422.26 crores (2022 : Rs. 547.40 crores) net off MAT credit.

(ii)	Items in respect of which the Company has succeeded in appeal, but the Income-tax Department is pursuing/likely to pursue in appeal/
reference and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed:

				

–

Income-tax matters : Rs. 469.19 crores (2022 : Rs. 412.03 crores).

		

(c)	In respect of (a) & (b) above, it is not practicable for the Company to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of
cash flows, if any.

		

(d)

Financial guarantee given on behalf of Subsidiaries/Associates/Joint Ventures companies [Refer Note 38 (2) (a)].

(B) Commitments:
		

(i)	The estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided is Rs. 2,581.34 crores (2022 :
Rs. 1,864.85 crores) and other commitments Rs. 17.78 crores (2022 : Rs. 6.90 crores).

		

(ii)	Uncalled liability on partly paid equity shares of Subsidiary(ies) company as at 31st March, 2023 Rs. 1,535.50 crores (2022 : Rs. 10.50 crores)

44. Other information:
(A) Research and Development expenditure
		

(a)

In recognised Research and Development units:

			

(i)	Expensed to Profit or Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Company, aggregate Rs. 705.06 crores
(2022 : Rs. 757.52 crores) [excluding depreciation and amortisation of Rs. 1,274.99 crores (2022 : Rs. 942.34 crores)].

			

(ii)

Development expenditure incurred during the year Rs. 1,413.09 crores (2022 : Rs. 1,383.00 crores).

			

(iii)

Capitalisation of assets Rs. 251.15 crores (2022 : Rs. 463.51 crores).

		

In other units:

(b)

			

(i)	Expensed to Profit or Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Company, aggregate Rs. 134.56 crores
(2022 : Rs. 123.56 crores) [excluding depreciation and amortisation of Rs. 169.85 crores (2022 : Rs. 133.49 crores)].

			

(ii)

Development expenditure incurred during the year Rs. 137.17 crores (2022 : Rs. 80.10 crores).

			

(iii)

Capitalisation of assets Rs. 51.35 crores (2022 : Rs. 8.83 crores).

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

298

44. Other information: (contd.)
(B) (i)	The Scheme of Merger by Absorption of a subsidiary, Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited (‘MEML’) with the Company and their respective
Shareholders (‘the Scheme’) has been approved by the Mumbai Bench of National Company Law Tribunal on 13th January, 2023. The Scheme
has taken effect from the appointed date i.e., 1st April, 2021.
		

(ii)	The above scheme of merger have been accounted under ‘the pooling of interests method’ i.e. in accordance with Appendix C of Ind AS 103
– Business Combinations and comparatives have been restated for the merger from the beginning of previous year i.e., 1st April, 2021.
Accordingly, the impact of MEML has been included in the standalone financial statements for the previous period presented. The effect of the
merger on the amounts of Revenue and Profit published in the respective period are as shown in the below table.
Rupees crores
Particulars

2022

Revenue from operations:
As published in previous year.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

57,445.97

As restated for the effect of merger.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

57,786.94

Profit/(loss) after tax:
As published in previous year.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

6,235.46

As restated for the effect of merger.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

6,147.98

45. Additional Regulatory Information:
a.

Ratios:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Debt-Equity Ratio (times)
(Long term Borrowings + Short term Borrowings (including current maturities of long term
borrowings)/(Total Equity)................................................................................................................................................................................

0.11

0.17

Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)
(Profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairments and exceptional items)/(Gross
interest for the period + Principal repayments within a year)..............................................................................................

4.69

10.85

Return on Equity
(Net Profit for the period/Average Total Equity for the period)...........................................................................................

16.06%

13.31%

Inventory Turnover (times)
(Cost of materials consumed/Average Inventories for the period).....................................................................................

8.69

7.92

Trade Receivables Turnover (times)
(Revenue from sale of goods and services)/(Average Trade Receivable for the period)...................................

23.52

21.63

Trade Payables Turnover (times)
(Purchase of goods and services + Other Expenses)/(Average Trade Payable for the period)......................

4.91

4.12

Net Capital Turnover (times)
(Revenue from operations)/[Average working capital (Current assets less Current liabilities) for the
period]............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

10.72

9.74

Net Profit margin (%)
(Net Profit for the period/Revenue from operations)..................................................................................................................

7.71%

8.43%

Return on Capital Employed (%)
(Profit before interest and tax/(Average Total Equity + Average Total Debt for the period)..........................

18.13%

14.64%

Return on Investment (%)
(Income earned on investments/Average Investment for the period)..............................................................................

5.75%

4.62%

		Explanatory notes:
		

(i)	Cost of materials consumed for the purpose of Inventory turnover ratio includes Purchases of stock-in-trade and Changes in inventories of
finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress.

		

(ii)	Investments includes current and non-current investments including Fixed deposits, Mutual funds, Corporate deposits, Inter corporate deposits
excluding investments in Equity instruments.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

299

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

45. Additional Regulatory Information: (contd.)
a.

Ratios: (contd.)

		

Explanation for change in the ratios by more than 25%:

		

(i)	Debt Equity Ratio (times) : The debt equity ratio is at 0.11 in current year as against 0.17 in previous year primarily due to repayment of
borrowings during the year.

		

(ii)	Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times) : The debt service coverage ratio is at 4.69 in current year as against 10.85 in previous year primarily
due to repayment of borrowings during the year.

b.

Transaction with Struck off Companies:
Rupees crores
Receivables

Payables

Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

Argus Media Pvt Ltd...................................................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Asmita Fire Safety Private Limited..................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Babace Pneumatics Private Limited...............................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Badri Sarraf Finance And Mutual Benefit Company Limited.........

—

—

796

—

—

Baux Arch Tech Pvt Ltd...........................................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Beauty Xl India Pvt Ltd............................................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Bkg Securities Limited..............................................................................................

—

—

32

—

—

C Cube Sports Private Limited...........................................................................

—

0.01

—

—

—

Chowdhary Motors Pvt Ltd...................................................................................

0.17

—

—

—

—

Country Inn & Suites By Carlson (A U).........................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Diamond Automobiles Pvt Ltd............................................................................

—

0.04

—

—

—

Dimension Data India Private Limited............................................................

—

0.03

—

—

—

Dimensions Engineering Technologies...........................................................

—

—

—

*

—

Dreams Comtrade Private Limited...................................................................

—

—

2

—

—

East West Power Genset Pvt., Ltd.,..................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Elegant Finvest Private Limited.........................................................................

—

—

4

—

—

Enffluence Technologies Limited.......................................................................

—

0.02

—

—

—

Frontline Corporate Finance Ltd........................................................................

—

—

1,944

—

—

Garlick Designing And Consultancy Pvt Ltd..............................................

—

—

264

—

—

Greenair Engg. Solutions P.Ltd............................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

H.K. Exports Private Limited................................................................................

—

—

700

—

—

Hanaro Hospitality Private Limited..................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Hbn Homes Colonisers Private Limited........................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Heeraraj R&D And Automations........................................................................

*

—

—

*

—

High Calibre Cnc Centre Private Limited.....................................................

0.07

—

—

—

—

Horizon Staffing And Technical Solutions Private Limited..............

*

—

—

—

—

Horizon Staffing Solutions Private Limited................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Hudson Engineering Industries Pvt Ltd........................................................

—

—

1,200

—

—

Jagat Trading Enterprises Limited....................................................................

—

—

100

—

—

Jaipal Consultancy Private Limited..................................................................

—

—

1

—

—

Janardana Investments Pvt Ltd.........................................................................

—

—

12

—

—

Name of the Struck off Company

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

300

45. Additional Regulatory Information: (contd.)
b.

Transaction with Struck off Companies: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Receivables

Payables

Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

Joseph Cardijn Auto Ser. Pvt Ltd......................................................................

*

*

—

—

—

K S Furniture Makers Pvt Ltd.............................................................................

—

0.02

—

—

—

Kamla Landmarc Cars Pvt. Ltd...........................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Leela Trade Link Private Limited.......................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Lektronix India Private Limited...........................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Loni Corporate Training Pvt. Ltd........................................................................

—

—

—

*

—

Magnate Leasing And Finance Private Limited.......................................

—

—

104

—

—

Maptronicz Technologies Pvt Ltd......................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Midwest Mutual Fund Limited.............................................................................

—

—

192

—

—

Niche Events And Promotions Private Limited.......................................

0.04

—

—

—

—

Nttf Industries Private Limited...........................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Oxford Automotive Private Limited.................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Pals Specalised Tooling System Priv..............................................................

—

—

—

*

—

Popular Stock And Share Services Private Limited.............................

—

—

1,328

—

—

Positive Leasing And Finance Pvt Ltd...........................................................

—

—

1,232

—

—

Purushothama Investments Pvt Ltd...............................................................

—

—

20

—

—

R.S.Ajit Singh & Co......................................................................................................

0.01

—

—

—

0.01

Rajpal Control Systems Private Limited......................................................

—

—

160

—

—

Ray Shield Technology Private Limited........................................................

—

0.01

—

—

—

Right View Audio Visual Pvt Ltd........................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Rishiroop Polymers Pvt. Ltd. (Trnsfr).............................................................

—

—

6,715

—

—

Robomatrix Automation & Solutions Private Limited........................

0.03

—

—

—

—

Rofin Baasel Laser India Private Limited.....................................................

*

—

—

—

—

S J N Industries.............................................................................................................

*

—

—

—

—

Safna Consultancy Private Limited..................................................................

—

—

800

—

—

Sahil Genset Sales Private Limited..................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Sartaj Mega Project India Pvt Ltd....................................................................

*

*

—

—

—

Serene Paints & Colors Pvt Ltd.........................................................................

—

0.01

—

—

—

Shalaka Technologies Pvt. Ltd.............................................................................

—

0.07

—

—

—

Shivraj Oils Pvt Ltd.....................................................................................................

—

—

—

*

—

Sincere Securities Private Limited...................................................................

—

—

16

—

—

Sindhudurg Investments Pvt. Ltd......................................................................

—

—

400

—

—

Sirius Transtech Pvt. Ltd.........................................................................................

—

0.01

—

—

—

Suviron Products Private Limited.....................................................................

—

—

80

—

—

Technosteel Commercial Kitchen Equipments Private Limited...

0.01

—

—

—

—

Name of the Struck off Company

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

301

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

45. Additional Regulatory Information: (contd.)
b.

Transaction with Struck off Companies: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Receivables

Payables

Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

The India Sugar Agencies Private Limited.....................................................

—

—

80

—

—

Think Creative Communications Private Limited....................................

—

*

—

—

—

Ti Tsubamex Private Limited................................................................................

—

0.01

—

—

—

Vennela And Venket Saai Projects India Private Limited.................

*

—

—

—

—

Versatile Options And Solutions Private Limited...................................

—

0.02

—

—

—

Welcome Telecom Pvt Ltd.....................................................................................

—

*

—

—

—

Name of the Struck off Company

		

* denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.

		

Note: The above information is provided on basis of reasonable diligence done to ascertain relevant companies that have been struck off on the
website of the Ministry of Company Affairs.

c.

Quarterly returns/statements filed by the Company with banks are in agreement with the books of accounts.

46. As described in note 44B, previous period’s figures have been regrouped/restated wherever necessary.
Signatures to Notes 1 to 46
The accompanying notes 1 to 46 are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

303

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

304

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
 Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries
(Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates and its joint ventures, which comprise the consolidated balance
sheet as at 31 March 2023, and the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), consolidated statement of changes
in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of reports of the other
auditors on separate/consolidated financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as were audited by the other auditors, the
aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true
and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its associates and
joint ventures as at 31 March 2023, of its consolidated profit and other comprehensive loss, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows
for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those
SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent
of the Group, its associates and joint ventures in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial
statements in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with the
consideration of reports of the other auditors referred to in paragraph (a) of the “Other Matters” section below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
 Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment and based on the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate/
consolidated financial statements of components audited by them, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the
current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matters
The key audit matter

How the matter was addressed in our audit

Impairment assessment of tangible assets and development expenditure
capitalised and currently under development

Our audit procedures included:

The Group’s Automotive Cash Generating Units (‘Auto CGU’) have
aggregate tangible assets of Rs 11,291 crores, which includes property,
plant and equipment of Rs 10,547 crores and capital-work-in-progress
of Rs 744 crores as at 31 March 2023. Further, the Auto CGU has
development expenditure capitalized of Rs 3,501 crores, and intangible
assets under development of Rs 1,820 crores.
Changes in business environment, including market or economic environment,
geopolitical situation and general inflationary trend could have a significant
impact on the valuation of the tangible and intangible assets of the Auto
CGU. The tangible and intangible assets of the Auto CGU are tested for
impairment periodically. The Group assesses the carrying amounts of the
tangible and intangible assets to determine indicators of impairment loss as
the recoverable values rely on certain assumptions and estimates of future
performance which impact the valuation. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount which is the higher of VIU or fair value less cost to
sell of the Auto CGU, is estimated and the impairment loss is recognised in
the statement of profit and loss. The carrying amount of the tangible and
intangible assets of Auto CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
See Note 2(h) to consolidated financial statements

•	Assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness
of key controls in respect of the Group’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models;
•	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash
flows such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation
and growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived
data, past performances, consistency with the Board approved
investment plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Involved valuation specialists as applicable, to evaluate the
assumptions including the discount rates used in VIU calculations;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management;
•	Evaluated the stage of development of the intangible assets,
judgments used for expected probable economic benefits and
associated expenditures, and their assessment of feasibility of the
projects; and
•	Assessed the adequacy of disclosures on key judgements,
assumptions and quantitative data with respect to impairment
losses.

305

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Key audit matters
The key audit matter

How the matter was addressed in our audit

Assessment of control on acquisition /divestment of interest
in group companies

Our audit procedures include:

The Group operates in various segments such as automotive,
hospitality, financial services, real estate etc.
During the year, the Holding Company undertook various
transactions as part of its capital allocation strategy involving
acquisition and divestment of shareholding in various companies
within the Group, its associates and joint ventures. This requires
management to exercise judgement whether these transactions
alter the assessment of control, joint control or significant
influence under the accounting standards. The cumulative
size and importance of these transactions in the consolidated
financial statements is significant.

•	Assessed management’s evaluation of the implication of significant
transactions on assessment of control, joint control or significant influence
based on the shareholders agreement and other indicators of control
over relevant activities on acquisition or divestment of interest in group
companies.
•	Independently, verified the terms of the shareholders agreement including
rights available with each shareholder such as ability to participate in the
operating decision making, contractual right to appoint director, participative
rights available with other shareholders, dispersal of shareholders etc;
•	Examined the adequacy of disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements.

Impairment loss allowance in the financial services business

The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component included:

As at 31 March 2023, the carrying value of loan assets
measured at amortised cost, aggregated Rs 86,456 crore
(net of allowance of expected credit loss Rs 3,649 crore)
constituting approximately 82% of the financial service’s
business total assets. Significant judgement is used in classifying
these loan assets and applying appropriate measurement
principles. ECL on such loan assets measured at amortised cost
is a critical estimate involving greater level of management
judgement. As part of the component auditor’s risk assessment,
they determined that the ECL on such loan assets has a high
degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of
reasonable outcomes. The elements of estimating ECL which
involved increased level of audit focus are the following:

Examined the policies approved by the Board of Directors of the component that
articulate the objectives of managing each portfolio and their business models. The
component auditor have also verified the methodology adopted for computation
of ECL (“ECL Model”) that addresses policies approved by the Board of Directors
of the component, procedures and controls for assessing and measuring credit
risk on all lending exposures measured at amortised cost. Additionally, the
component auditor have confirmed that adjustments to the output of the ECL
Model is consistent with the documented rationale and basis for such adjustments
and that the amount of adjustment has been approved by the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors of the component. The audit procedures related to the
allowance for ECL included the following, among others:
•

a.	completeness and accuracy of the EAD and the classification thereof
into stages consistent with the definitions applied in accordance with
the policy approved by the Board of Directors of the component
including the appropriateness of the qualitative factors to be applied;

•	Qualitative and quantitative factors used in staging the
loan assets measured at amortised cost;
•	Basis used for estimating Probabilities of Default (“PD”),
Loss Given Default (“LGD”) and Exposure at Default (“EAD”)
at product level with past trends;

b.	completeness, accuracy and appropriateness of information used in
the estimation of the PD and LGD for the different stages depending
on the nature of the portfolio; and

•	Judgements used in projecting economic scenarios and
probability weights applied to reflect future economic
conditions; and
•	Adjustments to model driven ECL results to address
emerging trends.

Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the following:

c.	accuracy of the computation of the ECL estimate including
reasonableness of the methodology used to determine macroeconomic overlays and adjustments to the output of the ECL Model.
•

Test of details on a sample in respect of the following:
a.	accuracy and completeness of the input data such as period of default
and other related information used in estimating the PD;
b.	the mathematical accuracy of the ECL computation by using the same
input data as used by the component;
c.	completeness and accuracy of the staging of the loans and the
underlying data based on which the ECL estimates have been
computed; and
d.	evaluating the adequacy of the adjustment made to the output as per
the ECL Model to ensure that the adjustment was in conformity with
the amount approved by the Audit Committee of the component.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

306

 Other Information
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Holding Company’s annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. The
Holding Company’s annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements
or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Holding Company’s annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
the matter to those charged with governance and take necessary actions, as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial statements
in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs, consolidated profit/loss and other comprehensive
income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its associates and joint ventures in accordance
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Act.
The respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures are responsible for
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company and for preventing
and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements
that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation
of the consolidated financial statements by the Management and Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its
associates and joint ventures are responsible for assessing the ability of each company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company
or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures are responsible for overseeing the
financial reporting process of each company.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud
or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
•	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform
audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk
of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under
Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Management
and Board of Directors.

307

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

•	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation of consolidated
financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group
and its associates and joint ventures to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
•	Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial statements of such entities or business activities within the Group and its associates
and joint ventures to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of
the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the
other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for
the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our responsibilities in
this regard are further described in paragraph (a) of the section titled “Other Matters” in this audit report.
We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated financial statements of
which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and
to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
a.	We did not audit the financial statements of 114 subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments)
of Rs 128,280 crore as at 31 March 2023, total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs 39,739 crore and net cash outflows (before
consolidation adjustments) amounting to Rs 713 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements. The
consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit (and other comprehensive income) (before consolidation adjustments)
of Rs 152 crore for the year ended 31 March 2023, in respect of 20 associates and 18 joint ventures, whose financial statements have not been
audited by us. These financial statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the Management and our
opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries,
joint ventures and associates is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
	Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect
of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.
b.	The financial statements of 6 subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs 2 crore as at
31 March 2023, total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs 0 crore and net cash outflows (before consolidation adjustments) amounting
to Rs 33 crore for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, have not been audited either by us or by other
auditors. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit (and other comprehensive income) (before consolidation
adjustments) of Rs 20 crore for the year ended 31 March 2023, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of 6 associates
and 4 joint ventures, whose financial statements have not been audited by us or by other auditors. These unaudited financial statements have been
furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures
included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act in so far
as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, is based solely on such unaudited financial statements. In our opinion and
according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, these financial statements are not material to the Group.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect of
this matter with respect to the financial statements certified by the Management.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

308

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of Section 143(11) of
the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.

(A)	As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate/consolidated
financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as were audited by other auditors, as noted in the “Other Matters”
paragraph, we report, to the extent applicable, that:

		

a.	We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the
purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.

		

b.	In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements have
been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors.

		

c.	The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the consolidated
statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant
books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements.

		

d.

		

e.	On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2023 taken on record
by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies, its associate companies and joint
ventures incorporated in India is disqualified as on 31 March 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of
the Act.

		

f.	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company and its
subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer
to our separate Report in “Annexure B”.

In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.

(B)	With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of
the reports of the other auditors on separate/consolidated financial statements of the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as noted in
the “Other Matters” paragraph:
		

a.	The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2023 on the consolidated financial position
of the Group, its associates and joint ventures. Refer Note 44 to the consolidated financial statements.

		

b.	Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or Ind AS, for material foreseeable
losses, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts. Refer Note 36 to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such
items as it relates to the Group, its associates and joint ventures.

		

c.	There has been no delay in transferring amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Holding Company or its subsidiary
companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India during the year ended 31 March 2023.

		

d

(i)	The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have
been audited have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no
funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds)
by the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”),
with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies (“Ultimate
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

			

(ii)	The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have
been audited have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no
funds have been received by the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies from any persons or entities, including foreign entities
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or such subsidiary
companies shall directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the
Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like from or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.

			

(iii)	Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances performed by us and that
performed by the auditor of the subsidiary company incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act,
nothing has come to our or other auditor notice that has caused us or the other auditor to believe that the representations under subclause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material misstatement.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

309

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

		

e.	The dividend declared or paid during the year by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures
incorporated in India is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.

		

f.	As proviso to rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 is applicable for the Holding Company or any of such subsidiary companies,
associate companies and joint ventures only with effect from 1 April, 2023, reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, 2014 is not applicable.

(C)

With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:

		In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the reports of the statutory auditors of such subsidiary
companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India which were not audited by us, the remuneration paid during the current
year by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures to its directors is in accordance with the
provisions of Section 197 of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section 197 of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not
prescribed other details under Section 197(16) of the Act which are required to be commented upon by us.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

Place : Mumbai
Date : 26 May 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: 113156
ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJG1038

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

310

Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(xxi)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, following companies incorporated in India and included in the
consolidated financial statements, have unfavourable remarks, qualification or adverse remarks given by the respective auditors in their reports
under the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (CARO):
Sr.
No.

Name of the entities

CIN

Relationship

Clause number of the CARO report which
is unfavourable or qualified or adverse

1

Kota Farm Services Limited

U02005MH2001PLC131699

Subsidiary

Clause 3(XVII) and 3(XIX)

2

Mahindra Construction Company Limited

U45200MH1992PLC068846

Subsidiary

Clause 3(XIX)

3

Officemartindia.com Limited

U74999MH2000PLC126610

Subsidiary

Clause 3(XVII) and 3(XIX)

4

Transtech Logistics Private Limited

U60231KA2008PTC048036

Joint Venture

Clause 3(XIX)

In addition to the above, there are certain companies in the Group whose auditors have reported cash losses in the financial year under clause 3(XVII) of
the CARO report. Based on information and explanations provided to us, in our opinion, these observations are not considered unfavourable or qualified
or adverse in nature and hence not reported under this clause.
The above does not include comments, if any, in respect of the following entities as the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by its auditor
till the date of principal auditor’s report.
Name of the entities

CIN

Relationship

Aquasail Distribution Private Limited

U93090MH2006PTC164021

Joint Venture

Brainbees Solutions Private Limited

U51100PN2010PTC136340

Associate

Medwell Ventures Private Limited

U85100GJ2014PTC079080

Associate

New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited

U85120MH2002PLC338742

Joint Venture

ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited

U40300DL2020PTC374527

Associate
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

Place : Mumbai
Date : 26 May 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: 113156
ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJG1038

311

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the consolidated financial statements
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023
 Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of
Sub‑section 3 of Section 143 of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) as
of and for the year ended 31 March 2023, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company and
such companies incorporated in India under the Act which are its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, as of that date.
In our opinion and based on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on internal financial controls with reference to financial statements
of subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures, as were audited by the other auditors, the Holding Company and such companies
incorporated in India which are its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, have, in all material respects, adequate internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements and such internal financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 March 2023, based on
the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by such companies considering the essential components of
such internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on
the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the respective company considering the essential components
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and
the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the relevant subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition,
use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

312

Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.
Other Matters
Our aforesaid report under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements insofar as it relates to 59 subsidiary companies, 5 associate companies and 14 joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in
India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
The internal financial controls with reference to financial statements insofar as it relates to 3 associate companies and 2 joint ventures, which are
companies incorporated in India and included in these consolidated financial statements, have not been audited either by us or by other auditors. In our
opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, such unaudited associate companies and joint ventures are
not material to the Holding Company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022

Place : Mumbai
Date : 26 May 2023

Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: 113156
ICAI UDIN: 23113156BGYUJG1038

313

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Consolidated Balance Sheet | as at 31st March, 2023
Rupees crores
I.

ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Capital work-in-progress.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Goodwill............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other intangible assets.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets under development........................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments accounted using equity method.......................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax assets (net)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Income tax assets (net)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current assets....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents..................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents...................................................................................................................................
(v)
Loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(vi) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current assets..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Assets classified as held for sale...................................................................................................................................................................................................

II.

TOTAL ASSETS.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other equity..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Equity attributable to owners of the company...................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(ia) Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ib) Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade payables
		
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises.............................................
(iii) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax liabilities (net)...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current liabilities..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(ia) Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ib) Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade payables
(a)
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises.....................................................................................
(b)
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises...................................
(iii) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current liabilities.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Current tax liabilities (net).................................................................................................................................................................................................................
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES...............................................................................................................................................................................................

Note

2023

2022

4
5
6
7
8
9

20,351.33
1,222.66
2,548.90
4,239.75
2,745.92
14,380.57

21,902.26
3,036.10
1,340.40
2,775.83
3,666.71
13,149.70

9
10
11
12
13

6,625.93
282.60
52,772.75
3,353.97
1,615.46
1,802.88
2,623.61
1,14,566.33

6,060.85
309.43
38,849.40
2,206.65
1,724.31
1,604.24
2,338.92
98,964.80

15

16,854.97

11,595.82

9
10
16
16
11
12
14

14,265.92
7,028.02
3,493.41
7,780.02
34,684.81
1,951.70
5,209.99
56.60
91,325.44
2,05,891.77

10,849.88
6,373.95
3,487.59
7,630.02
29,242.26
1,998.95
3,969.53
75,148.00
1,74,112.80

17

556.82
55,808.97
56,365.79
10,716.32
67,082.11

556.06
46,566.58
47,122.64
9,702.62
56,825.26

19

55,027.39
2,882.50

48,625.06
2,432.55

20
21
22
13
23

0.04
1,370.45
1,815.95
1,608.64
5,525.28
68,230.25

1.55
1,406.04
1,497.99
1,786.10
5,249.92
60,999.21

19

33,739.62
597.34

26,042.12
505.48

363.63
23,472.03
4,424.94
6,176.38
1,189.48
615.99
70,579.41
2,05,891.77

195.51
18,841.04
4,422.25
4,921.72
968.19
392.02
56,288.33
1,74,112.80

14

20
21
23
22

The accompanying notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

314

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss | for the year ended 31st March, 2023
Rupees crores
INCOME
Revenue from operations...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other income..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Income..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Purchases of stock-in-trade ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress.........................................................................................................
Employee benefits expense..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Finance costs ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense ...................................................................................................................................................................
Other expenses .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Expenses ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit Before Exceptional Items, share of profit of associates and joint ventures and tax .............................................................
Exceptional items (net)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures (net)..................................................................................................................................................................
Profit Before Tax ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Tax Expense
Current tax .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit for the year .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)
A.
(i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
		
(a) Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans .......................................................................................................................................
		
(b) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income ............................................................................................................
		
(c) Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investees.....................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss......................................................................................
B.
(i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss
		
(a) Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations ..................................................
		
(b) Debt instruments through other comprehensive income ................................................................................................................
		
(c)	Effective portion of gains/(losses) on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge...............
		
(d)	Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investees ..................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss ..............................................................................................
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss).....................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year....................................................................................................................................................................
Profit /(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Note

2023

2022

24
25

1,21,268.55
1,206.49
1,22,475.04

90,170.57
934.51
91,105.08

26

68,477.97
7,541.90
(2,032.31)
9,677.95
5,829.70
4,356.81
17,317.75
1,11,169.77
11,305.27
1,249.52
1,505.44
14,060.23

46,265.48
6,399.37
(861.66)
8,386.74
5,018.05
3,507.50
15,297.79
84,013.27
7,091.81
414.17
1,855.79
9,361.77

(2,742.04)
56.29
11,374.48

(1,868.10)
(240.66)
7,253.01

(154.55)
(45.11)
11.84
35.53

141.12
(75.83)
9.97
(36.22)

(129.76)
(92.64)
(5.50)
186.04
7.16
(186.99)
11,187.49

(287.33)
(1.18)
14.82
136.25
(13.07)
(111.47)
7,141.54

10,281.50
1,092.98
11,374.48

6,577.32
675.69
7,253.01

(170.03)
(16.96)
(186.99)

(94.79)
(16.68)
(111.47)

10,111.47
1,076.02
11,187.49

6,482.53
659.01
7,141.54

92.41
91.96

59.20
58.83

27
28
29
30
31

32

13

Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Earnings per equity share
(Face value Rs. 5/- per share) (Rupees)
Basic ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Diluted ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

33

The accompanying notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

—
9.90
2,745.48

—
—
369.27

7.52
260.33

—

111.57

(4.04)

—

(78.18)

—
4,844.87

—

—

4.04

—

—

(2.23)

—

210.76

—

—

—

—

(136.83)
48,187.61

443.00

—

—

—

—

—

—

(210.76)

7.48

—

(1,284.77)

10,195.28

(86.22)

10,281.50

39,174.21

—
(67.73)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(36.87)

(36.87)

—

(30.86)

Debt
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income

—
(196.97)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(7.48)

—

—

(59.48)

(59.48)

—

(130.01)

Equity
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income

—
(104.49)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(0.44)

—

(66.80)

(66.80)

—

(37.25)

Effective
portion of Cash
Flow Hedges
(Refer Note 36
(a) (ii))

443.00

111.57

—

(0.30)

8.24

(2.95)

—

—

—

(24.46)

(1,284.77)

10,111.47

(170.03)

10,281.50

—

—

—

—

—

(50.73)

195.33

—

—

—

(237.38)

1,076.02

(16.96)

1,092.98

9,702.62

443.00

111.57

—

(0.30)

8.24

(53.68)

195.33

—

—

(24.46)

(1,522.15)

11,187.49

(186.99)

11,374.48

56,269.20

—
(119.41)
30.46
(88.95)
(229.40) 55,808.97 10,716.32 66,525.29

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(24.02)

—

79.34

79.34

—

(284.72) 46,566.58

Remeasurement gain (net) on defined benefit plans, net of deferred tax, aggregating to Rs. 86.22 crores (2022: Rs. 103.97 crores) has been recognised during the year as part of retained earnings.

Hyperinflation adjustment.............................
Transactions with non-controlling interest
and changes in group's interest...................
As at 31st March, 2023.......................................

—

—
—

(0.30)

—

—

86.42

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,632.30

Retained
earnings

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

Share-based payment to employees..........

Exercise of employee stock options..............
Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
trust to employees...........................................
On account of employee stock options
lapsed ...................................................................

—

—

(0.72)

—

—

—
—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

223.46

Other
reserves

Total

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

On disposal of subsidiaries during the year.

Transfers from Retained earnings...............
On business combinations during the
year.......................................................................

Dividend paid on equity shares....................
Other comprehensive income reclassified
to profit or loss.................................................
Other comprehensive income /(loss)
reclassified to Retained earnings.................

—

—

2,649.46

—

—

369.99

Shares
options
outstanding
account

Total other
equity
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Other comprehensive income /(loss)...........
Total comprehensive income /(loss) for
the year..............................................................

Profit /(loss) for the year...............................

Securities
premium

Items of other comprehensive income

Rupees crores
Noncontrolling
interests

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

As at 1st April, 2022......................................

Capital
reserve on
consolidation

Reserves and surplus

Attributable to owners of the company

555.15
—
555.15
0.91
—
556.06

2022

BOARD’S
REPORT

Particulars

556.06
—
556.06
0.59
0.17
556.82

2023

Rupees crores

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

(B) Other Equity

Issued, subscribed and paid up:
Balance as at the beginning of the year..............................................................................
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period error.......................................
Restated balance..................................................................................................................................
Add: Allotment of shares by M&M ESOP Trust to Employees...............................
Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement.......................................................
Balance as at the end of the year.........................................................................................

Particulars

(A) Equity Share Capital

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, 2023

315
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

—
—

—
—
—
114.80

—
—

—
—
—
—
—
—
0.72
—
—
—
—
—
—
369.99

Total comprehensive income /(loss) for
the year............................................................................

Dividend paid on equity shares.........................

Other comprehensive income reclassified
to profit or loss.............................................................

Other comprehensive income /(loss)
reclassified to Retained earnings.....................

Transfers from Retained earnings........................

On business combinations during the year.....

On disposal of subsidiaries during the year....

Exercise of employee stock options...................

Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
trust to employees.......................................................

On account of employee stock options
lapsed...................................................................................

Share-based payment to employees..................

Transactions with non-controlling interest
and changes in group's interest........................

As at 31 March, 2022.......................................

st

—

—

Profit /(loss) for the year......................................

Other comprehensive income /(loss).............

2,649.46

—

(0.45)

—

—

—

2,535.11

223.46

—

86.48

(3.10)

—

(114.80)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

254.88

Shares
options
outstanding
account

4,632.30

—

—

3.10

—

—

—

—

117.78

—

—

—

—

—

—

4,511.42

Other
reserves

Reserves and surplus
Securities
premium

369.27

Capital
reserve on
consolidation

As at 1st April, 2021..............................................

Particulars

(B) Other Equity (contd.)

39,174.21

(78.00)

—

—

—

—

—

—

(117.78)

(0.09)

—

(979.17)

6,681.29

103.97

6,577.32

33,667.96

Retained
earnings

(30.86)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(0.81)

(0.81)

—

(30.05)

Debt
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income

(130.01)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

0.09

—

—

(63.69)

(63.69)

—

(66.41)

Equity
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income

(37.25)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(1.37)

—

64.88

64.88

—

(100.76)

Effective
portion of Cash
Flow Hedges
(Refer Note 36
(a) (ii))

Items of other comprehensive income

Attributable to owners of the company

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (contd.)

(284.72)

(7.71)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

36.78

—

(199.14)

(199.14)

—

(114.65)

Foreign
currency
translation
reserve

46,566.58

(85.71)

86.48

—

(0.45)

—

—

0.72

—

—

35.41

(979.17)

6,482.53

(94.79)

6,577.32

41,026.77

Total other
equity

9,702.62

(13.19)

—

—

—

—

3.94

39.57

—

—

—

(57.02)

659.01

(16.68)

675.69

9,070.31

56,269.20

(98.90)

86.48

—

(0.45)

—

3.94

40.29

—

—

35.41

(1,036.19)

7,141.54

(111.47)

7,253.01

50,097.08

Total

Rupees crores
Noncontrolling
interests

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

316

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

317

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (contd.)
(C) Other reserves
Rupees crores
Particulars

Capital
Redemption
Reserve

Capital Reserve

Debenture General Reserve
Redemption
Reserve

Statutory
Reserve

Total

As at 1st April, 2022............................................................................

73.69

23.52

76.02

3,146.36

1,312.71

4,632.30

Transfer from retained earnings..........................................................................

—

—

—

—

210.76

210.76

On disposal of subsidiaries during the year................................................

—

—

(2.23)

—

—

(2.23)

On account of employee stock options lapsed........................................

—

—

—

4.04

—

4.04

As at 31st March, 2023......................................................................

73.69

23.52

73.79

3,150.40

1,523.47

4,844.87

As at 1st April, 2021............................................................................

73.69

23.52

76.02

3,143.26

1,194.93

4,511.42

Transfer from retained earnings..........................................................................

—

—

—

—

117.78

117.78

On account of employee stock options lapsed........................................

—

—

—

3.10

—

3.10

As at 31st March, 2022......................................................................

73.69

23.52

76.02

3,146.36

1,312.71

4,632.30

(D) Notes
a)	The Company has reduced the share capital by Rs. 11.36 crores (2022: Rs. 11.65 crores) and securities premium by Rs. 182.94 crores (2022: Rs. 182.94 crores) for the
2,27,05,304 shares of Rs. 5 each (2022: 2,32,95,651 shares of Rs. 5 each) held by the M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees.
b)	The Company has also reduced the share capital by Rs. 21.12 crores (2022: Rs. 21.12 crores) and retained earnings by Rs. 1,168.20 crores (2022: Rs. 1,168.20 crores) for
4,22,35,214 shares of Rs. 5 each (2022: 4,22,35,214 shares of Rs. 5 each) held by M&M Benefit Trust.
c)	The share capital of the Company has also been reduced and the securities premium increased by Rs. 32.47 crores (2022: Rs. 32.77 crores) for 2,27,05,303 bonus shares of
Rs. 5 each (2022: 2,32,95,650 bonus shares of Rs. 5 each) issued by the Company to M&M ESOP Trust and for 4,22,35,214 bonus shares of Rs. 5 each (2022: 4,22,35,214 bonus
shares of Rs. 5 each) issued by the Company to M&M Benefit Trust in December, 2017.

(E) Description of the nature and purpose of reserves
(i)

Capital reserve

		Capital reserve represents receipt of Government grants from a package of incentive given by Maharashtra Government for setting up /extension of plants in specified areas.
(ii)

Capital reserve on consolidation

		Gain on bargain purchase, i.e., excess of fair value of net assets acquired over the fair value of consideration in a business combination or on acquisition of interest in associate is
recognised as capital reserve on consolidation.
(iii)

Securities premium

		Securities premium is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The fair value of employee stock options is recognised in securities premium once the shares have been
allotted on exercise of the options.
(iv)

General reserve

		The general reserve comprises of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. The reserve can be distributed /utilised by the Company in accordance with
the Companies Act, 2013.
(v)

Retained earnings

		Retained earnings comprises of accumulated balance of profits/(losses) of current and prior years including transfers made to /from other reserves from time to time. The reserve
can be utilised or distributed by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
(vi)

Debenture redemption reserve

		Debenture redemption reserve is a statutory reserve (as per Companies Act, 2013) created out of profits of the company available for payment of dividend for the purpose of
redemption of debentures issued by the Company. On completion of redemption, the reserve is transferred to retained earnings.
(vii)

Share option outstanding account

		The share option outstanding account represents reserve in respect of equity settled share options granted to the Company’s employees in pursuance of the employee stock
option plan.
(viii) Statutory reserve
		
(ix)

Statutory reserve has been created pursuant to section 45- IC of the RBI Act, 1934 and section 29C of the National Housing Act, 1987.
Capital redemption reserve

		Capital redemption reserve was created against redemption of preference shares.
The accompanying notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements

In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

318

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement | for the year ended 31st March, 2023
Rupees crores

A.

2023

2022

11,305.27

7,091.81

 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense...........................................................................................................................................

4,356.81

3,507.50

 Loss/(gain) on foreign exchange fluctuation and other adjustments (net)..........................................................................................

59.62

(65.31)

 Gain due to change in lease arrangements................................................................................................................................................................

—

(15.07)

 Dividend on investments and interest income [excluding Rs. 12,152.00 crores (2022: Rs. 10,923.82 crores)
in respect of financial services business].....................................................................................................................................................................

(528.01)

(418.38)

 Interest, commitment and finance charges [excluding Rs. 5,079.63 crores (2022: Rs. 4,392.60 crores) in
respect of financial services business]...........................................................................................................................................................................

750.07

625.45

 Equity-settled share-based payment expenses........................................................................................................................................................

139.75

105.25

 Net gain on financial instruments measured at fair value...............................................................................................................................

(426.73)

(355.65)

 (Gain)/Loss on property, plant and equipment sold /scrapped /written off (net)............................................................................

(14.89)

39.11

4,336.62

3,422.90

15,641.89

10,514.71

Trade and other receivables...................................................................................................................................................................................................

(2,904.47)

(2,044.51)

Financial services receivable..................................................................................................................................................................................................

(18,797.21)

(461.61)

Inventories..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(5,251.96)

(2,172.99)

Trade and other payables and provisions.....................................................................................................................................................................

7,012.60

4,972.37

(19,941.04)

293.26

Cash (used in)/generated from operations........................................................................................................................................................................

(4,299.15)

10,807.97

Income taxes paid (net of refunds and interest on refunds)..............................................................................................................................

(2,774.87)

(1,560.42)

Net cash (used in)/from operating activities...........................................................................................................................................................

(7,074.02)

9,247.55

Payment to acquire property, plant & equipment and other intangible assets.....................................................................................

(6,304.57)

(6,039.80)

Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment and other intangible assets...............................................................................

137.78

119.94

Payment to acquire investments.............................................................................................................................................................................................

(50,164.56)

(65,421.47)

Proceeds from sale of investments.......................................................................................................................................................................................

46,269.08

65,127.25

Interest received (excluding financial services business)........................................................................................................................................

463.67

419.57

Dividends received from joint ventures and associates..........................................................................................................................................

1,391.01

1,245.78

Proceeds from capital reduction/buy-back of shares by joint venture........................................................................................................

70.93

55.05

Dividends received from others................................................................................................................................................................................................

5.68

1.25

Bank deposits placed.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(12,292.91)

(7,468.23)

Bank deposits matured...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

10,755.17

8,813.19

Net change in earmarked and margin accounts with banks...............................................................................................................................

70.89

175.39

Receivables /Inter corporate deposits placed................................................................................................................................................................

(987.00)

(818.28)

CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Profit Before Exceptional Items, share of profit of associates and joint ventures and tax...........................................................
Adjustments for:

Operating Profit before working capital changes........................................................................................................................................................
Changes in:

B.

CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

319

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement | for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (contd.)
Rupees crores

C.

2023

2022

Inter corporate deposits refunded..........................................................................................................................................................................................

893.92

266.50

Purchase of investment in joint ventures and associates (including share application money)................................................

(62.05)

(222.38)

Purchase consideration paid on acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired................................................................................

(586.58)

(41.83)

Consideration received on disposal of subsidiaries.....................................................................................................................................................

740.28

5.72

Consideration received on disposal (including partial sale of investment) of associates and joint ventures...................

1,052.00

556.53

Net cash used in investing activities..............................................................................................................................................................................

(8,547.26)

(3,225.82)

Proceeds from issue of shares to employees by ESOP trust.............................................................................................................................

0.53

0.92

Proceeds from borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

55,622.41

53,879.94

Repayments of borrowings..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

(37,572.29)

(56,937.78)

Net change in loans repayable on demand and cash credit................................................................................................................................

516.71

(285.21)

Proceeds from issue of Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares..........................................................................................................

400.00

—

Repayment of lease liabilities....................................................................................................................................................................................................

(750.78)

(583.23)

Dividends paid........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(1,284.75)

(980.44)

Dividend paid to non-controlling interests........................................................................................................................................................................

(237.38)

(57.02)

Transactions with non-controlling interest.......................................................................................................................................................................

(13.94)

(240.28)

Interest, commitment and finance charges paid (excluding financial services business)................................................................

(734.40)

(679.50)

Net cash from /(used in) financing activities..........................................................................................................................................................

15,946.11

(5,882.60)

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents...............................................................................................................................................................

324.83

139.13

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year......................................................................................................................................

3,487.59

3,374.59

Cash and cash equivalents related to disposal of subsidiaries..........................................................................................................................

(352.87)

(13.36)

Unrealised gain /(loss) on foreign currency cash and cash equivalents (net).........................................................................................

33.86

(12.77)

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year (Refer note 16)...................................................................................................

3,493.41

3,487.59

CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2023.
The above Cash Flow Statement has been prepared under the ‘indirect method’ as set out in Ind AS 7 - Statement of Cash Flow.
The accompanying notes 1 to 49 are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

320

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements | for the year ended 31st March, 2023
1

General information

	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (‘the Company’) is a limited company incorporated in India. The address of its registered office and principal activities of the
Company are disclosed in the introduction to the Annual Report.
	The Ordinary (Equity) shares of the Company are listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”) in India. The
Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) of the Company are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and also admitted for trading on International Order
Book (IOB) of London Stock Exchange.
2

Significant Accounting Policies
a)

Statement of compliance and basis of preparation and presentation

		These consolidated financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and its subsidiaries (‘the Group’ or ‘Mahindra Group’) have been prepared
in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards as per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and notified under
Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (the ‘Act’) and other relevant provisions of the Act.
		
b)

These consolidated financial statements were approved by the Company’s Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 26th May, 2023.
Basis of measurement

		The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are measured
at fair values.
c)

Basis of consolidation

		Subsidiaries
		

The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.

		Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control. Subsidiaries are consolidated on a line-by-line basis from the date the control is
transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for
business combinations by the Group.
		Changes in the Group’s interest in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted as equity transactions. The carrying amount
of the Company’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any
difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is
recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
		In case of loss of control of a subsidiary, the difference of the aggregate of fair value of consideration received and fair value of retained
interest as compared to the carrying amount of the assets (including any goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary and related noncontrolling interest, if any, is recognised as gain or loss in Consolidated statement of profit and loss. Additionally, components of Other
Comprehensive Income of Subsidiaries are reclassified to Consolidated statement of profit and loss or transferred directly to retained earnings.
The fair value of any investment retained at the date when control is lost is regarded as the cost on initial recognition of investment in an associate
or jointly controlled entity or as the fair value on initial recognition of investment classified as a financial asset.
		Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also
eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. These financial statements are prepared by applying
uniform accounting policies in use at the Group.
		Associates
		Associates are the entities over which the Group has significant influence. Investment in associates are accounted for using the equity method of
accounting, after initially being recognised at cost.
		Joint arrangements
		A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have the rights to the net assets of the
arrangement. The results, assets and liabilities of a joint venture are accounted using the equity method of accounting. Where the Group’s activities
are conducted through joint operations (i.e. the parties have rights to the assets and obligation for liabilities relating to the arrangement), the Group
recognises its share of assets, liabilities, income and expenses of such joint operations incurred jointly along with its share of income from the sale
of output.
d)

Measurement of fair values

		A number of Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values, for both financial and non-financial assets and
liabilities. The Group has established policies and procedures with respect to the measurement of fair values.
		

Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows:

		

—

Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.

		

—

Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.

		

—

Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

321

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
e)

Use of estimates and judgments

		The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Ind AS requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions, that affect
the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses at the date of these financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the years presented. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
		Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised and future periods affected.
		Key sources of estimation uncertainty at the date of financial statements, which may cause a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities within the next financial year, is in respect of useful lives of property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets, provision
for product warranties, fair value of financial assets /liabilities and impairment of investments and goodwill.
		The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year are discussed below:
i)

Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets

			The Group reviews the useful lifes of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets at the end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in depreciation and amortisation expense in future periods.
ii)

Provision for product warranties

			The Group recognises provision for warranties in respect of the products that it sells. Provisions are discounted, where necessary, to its present
value based on the best estimate required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date
and adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
iii)

Fair value of financial assets and liabilities and investments

			The Group measures certain financial assets and liabilities on fair value basis at each balance sheet date or at the time they are assessed
for impairment. Fair value measurement that are based on significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) requires estimates of operating margin,
discount rate, future growth rate, terminal values, etc. based on management’s best estimate about future developments.
iv)

Impairment of tangible and intangible assets including goodwill

			The Group estimates the value in use of the cash generating unit (CGU) based on the future cash flows after considering current economic
conditions and trends, estimated future operating results and growth rate and anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions. The
estimated cash flows are developed using internal forecasts. The discount rate used for the CGUs represent the weighted average cost of
capital based on historical market returns of comparable companies.
		

v)

Impairment of financial services receivable

			The measurement of impairment losses on loan assets and commitments, requires judgement, in estimating the amount and timing of future
cash flows and recoverability of collateral values while determining the impairment losses and assessing a significant increase in credit risk.
			The financial services business Expected Credit Loss (ECL) calculation is the output of a complex model with a number of underlying
assumptions regarding the choice of variable inputs and their interdependencies. Elements of the ECL model that are considered in accounting
judgements and estimates include:
			

—	The financial services business criteria for assessing if there has been a significant increase in credit risk

			

—	The segmentation of financial assets when their ECL is assessed on a collective basis

			

—	Development of ECL model, including the various formulae and the choice of inputs

			

—	Selection of forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios and their probability weights, to derive the economic inputs into the ECL model

			

—	Management overlay used in circumstances where management judges that the existing inputs, assumptions and model techniques do
not capture all the risk factors relevant to the lending portfolios.

f)

Property, plant and equipment

		Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment, if any.
		Cost includes financing cost relating to borrowed funds attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying tangible assets upto the date
the assets are ready for use.
		Depreciation is provided on straight-line basis for property, plant and equipment so as to expense the depreciable amount, i.e. the cost less
estimated residual value, over its estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and the effect of any
changes in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis.
		When an asset is scrapped or otherwise disposed off, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the books of account and
resultant profit or loss, if any, is reflected in profit or loss.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

322

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)

		The management’s estimate of useful lives are in accordance with Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013, other than the following asset classes,
based on the Group’s expected usage pattern supported by technical assessment:

g)

Asset Class

Useful lives

(i)

Plant and equipment

2-25 years

(ii)

Buildings, including roads

3-60 years

(iii)

Vehicles

2-10 years

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

		Goodwill is initially recognised as the excess of consideration paid and acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable net assets of
acquired business. Subsequent to initial measurement, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment, if any. Goodwill is allocated to
the cash-generating unit which is expected to benefit from the business combination.
		Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost except those acquired in a business combination.
		Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis so as to reflect the pattern in
which the asset’s economic benefits are consumed.
		

Intangible assets under development

		The Group expenses costs incurred during research phase to profit or loss in the year in which they are incurred. Development phase expenses
are initially recognised as intangible assets under development until the development phase is complete, upon which the amount is capitalised as
intangible asset.
		

Intangible assets acquired under business combination

		Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value on the
acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost).
		Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and
accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately.
		

Other intangible assets

		Technical Knowhow
		

The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit, commencing with the year of purchase of the technology.

		Development Expenditure
		The expenditure incurred on technical services and other project/product related expenses are amortised over the estimated period of benefit, not
exceeding 60 months.
		

Brand license fee

		

The expenditure incurred is amortised over the period of relevant licence fee or the estimated period of benefit, whichever is lower.
Software Expenditure

		

The expenditure incurred is amortised over 36 months commencing from the year in which the expenditure is incurred.

		Others
		

The expenditure incurred is amortised over the estimated period of benefit.

		The amortisation period for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed annually and changes in expected useful lives are treated as
changes in estimates.
h)

Impairment of Assets

		At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the
value in use or fair value less cost to sell, of the asset or cash-generating unit, as the case may be, is estimated and impairment loss (if any) is
recognised and the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount.
		When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate
of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) earlier.
		Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and
whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

323

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
i)

Inventories

		Inventories comprise cost of purchase, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
		Raw materials and bought out components are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the basis of the weighted
average method.
		Finished goods produced, stock in trade, manufactured components and work-in-progress are carried at cost or net realisable value whichever
is lower.
		Stores, spares and tools other than obsolete and slow moving items are carried at cost. Obsolete and slow moving items are valued at cost or
estimated net realisable value, whichever is lower.
j)

Foreign exchange transactions and translation

		The functional currency of the Company and its Indian subsidiaries is Indian Rupees whereas the functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
		Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are measured at the rates prevailing at the date when the
fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange
differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions
entered into in order to hedge certain foreign currency risks (refer policy on Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting).
		For the purposes of presenting these consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated
into Indian Rupees using exchange rates prevailing at the end of each reporting period. Income and expense items are translated at the average
exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (and attributed
to non-controlling interests as appropriate).
		On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of control over
a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement or an associate that includes a foreign
operation of which the retained interest becomes a financial asset), the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation
attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss.
		In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation that does not result in the Group losing control over
the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in
profit or loss. For all other partial disposal (i.e. partial disposals of associates or joint arrangements that do not result in the Group losing significant
influence or joint control), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.
k)
		

Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.

		Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue
of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or
deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable
to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss. A trade
receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price.
Classification and subsequent measurement
		Financial assets
		All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are
purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their respective classification.
		

On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at -

		

—

Amortised cost; or

		

—

Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - debt investment; or

		

—

Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - equity investment; or

		

—

Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL)

		The classification of debt instrument as amortised cost or FVTOCI is based on the business model and cash flow characteristics of such instrument.
		Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition, except if the Group changes its business model for managing financial
assets.
		All financial asset not classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI are measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets unless
designated as effective hedge instruments which are accounted as per hedge accounting requirements discussed below.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

324

2. Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
		Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured at amortised cost using effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced
by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain and loss on
derecognition is recognised in profit or loss.
		The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income over the relevant
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees paid or received that form an
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument,
or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
		Debt investment at FVTOCI are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income under effective interest method, foreign exchange gains
and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Other net gains and losses are recognised in OCI. On derecognition, gains and losses
accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
		For equity investments, the Group makes an election on an instrument-by-instrument basis to designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI.
These elected investments are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive
income and accumulated in the reserves. The cumulative gain or loss is not reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the investments. These equity
investments are not held for trading. Dividend income received on such equity investments are recognised in profit or loss.
		Equity investments that are not designated as measured at Cost or FVTOCI are designated as measured at FVTPL and subsequent changes in fair
value are recognised in profit or loss.
		

Financial liabilities and equity instruments

		Debt and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the
contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
		Equity instruments
		An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity
instruments issued by the Group is recognised at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
		Financial liabilities
		Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as held-fortrading or it is a derivative (that does not meet hedge accounting requirements) or it is designated as such on initial recognition. Other financial
liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses
are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss.
		Compound instruments
		An issued financial instrument that comprises of both the liability and equity components are accounted as compound financial instruments. The
fair value of the liability component is separated from the compound instrument and the residual value is recognised as equity component of other
financial instrument. The liability component is subsequently measured at amortised cost, whereas the equity component is not remeasured after
initial recognition. The transaction costs related to compound instruments are allocated to the liability and equity components in the proportion
to the allocation of gross proceeds. Transaction costs related to equity component is recognised directly in equity and the cost related to liability
component is included in the carrying amount of the liability component and amortised using effective interest method.
Derecognition of financial assets
		The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the rights
to receive the contractual cash flows from financial asset in a manner that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are
transferred to another party. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to
control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for the amount it may have to pay.
		If the Group enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognised on its balance sheet, but retains either all or substantially all of
the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are not derecognised and the proceeds received are recognised as a
collateralised borrowing.
Offsetting
		Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group currently has
a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously.
		

Financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments

		A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because
a specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
		Financial guarantee contracts and loan commitments issued by the Group are initially measured at their fair values and, if not designated as at
FVTPL, are subsequently measured at the higher of:
		

•

the amount of loss allowance determined in accordance with impairment requirements of Ind AS 109; and

		

•	the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of
Ind AS 115.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

325

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting

		The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure
to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts that are not financial assets within the scope of
Ind AS 109 are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and economic characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
		Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the
end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective
as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the
nature of the hedged item.
		The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or cash
flow hedges. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
		At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with
its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an
ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
		Changes in fair value of the designated portion of derivatives that qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in profit or loss immediately, together
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
		The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other
comprehensive income and accumulated under hedging reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
		Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (relating to effective portion as described above) are
reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
		Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge
accounting. Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer
expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets
		The Group applies the expected credit loss (ECL) model for recognising impairment loss on financial assets. With respect to trade receivables, the
Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises
lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. If, on the other hand, the credit risk on the financial
instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount
equal to 12 month ECL. The assessment of whether lifetime ECL should be recognised is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of
a default occurring since initial recognition. 12 month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on
a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
		Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets. For debt securities at
FVTOCI, the loss allowance is recognised in OCI.
		The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash
flows to repay the amounts subject to the write- off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities
under the Group’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
l)
		

Revenue Recognition
Sale of Goods or Services

		The Group recognises revenue from sale of goods or services at the amount of transaction price (excluding variable consideration that is
constrained), that is allocated to the performance obligation satisfied. Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Group
expects it to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. An
amount of consideration can vary because of discounts, rebates, incentives etc. which are explicitly stated in the contract or are as per customary
business practices. The consideration can also vary where the entitlement is contingent on occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event.
The Group includes variable consideration as part of transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in
the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently
resolved. Variable consideration is estimated using the expected value method or the most likely amount depending on which method the
Group expects to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled and is applied consistently throughout the contract.
Payment terms agreed with a customer are as per business practice and the financing component, if significant, is separated from the transaction
price and accounted as interest income.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

326

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)

		

Dividend and interest income

		

Dividend from investments are recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive payment is established.

		Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income
can be measured reliably.
Income from financing business
		Interest income is recognised in Consolidated Statement of profit and loss using the effective interest method for all financial instruments measured
at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVTOCI and debt instruments designated at FVTPL.
		If expectations regarding the cash flows on the financial asset are revised for reasons other than credit risk, the adjustment is recorded as a positive
or negative adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet with an increase or reduction in interest income. The adjustment
is subsequently amortised through interest income in the Consolidated Statement of profit and loss.
		When a financial asset becomes credit-impaired, the Group calculates interest income by applying the effective interest rate to the net amortised
cost of the financial asset. If the financial assets cures and is no longer credit-impaired, the Group reverts to calculating interest income on a
gross basis.
		Additional interest and interest on trade advances, are recognised when they become measurable and when it is not unreasonable to expect their
ultimate collection.
		

Income from bill discounting is recognised over the tenure of the instrument so as to provide a constant periodic rate of return.

		

Fee and commission income

		Fee based income are recognised when they become measurable and when it is probable to expect their ultimate collection.
		

Commission and brokerage income earned for the services rendered are recognised as and when they are due.

		

Long term construction contracts and property development activity

		Some of the Group companies are in the business to develop and sell residential and commercial properties. Revenue from such contracts is
recognised when control over the property has been transferred to the customer. An enforceable right to payment does not arise until the
development of the property is completed. Therefore, revenue is recognised at a point in time when the legal title has passed to the customer and
the development of the property is completed. The revenue is measured at the transaction price agreed under the contract.
		For certain contracts involving the sale of property under development, deferred payment schemes are offered to the customers. The transaction
price is adjusted for the effects of the significant financing component.
		

Income from Sale of land and other rights

		Revenue from sale of land and other rights are considered upon transfer of all significant risks and rewards of ownership of such real estate/
property as per the terms of the contract entered into with the buyers, which are generally with the firmity of the sale contracts/agreements.
		

Income from Project Management

		Project management fees receivable on fixed period contracts is accounted over the tenure of the contract/agreement. Where the fee is linked to
the input costs, revenue is recognised as a proportion of the work completed based on progress claims submitted. Where the management fee is
linked to the revenue generation from the project, revenue is recognised on the percentage of completion basis.
		

Land Lease Premium

		Land lease premium is recognised as income upon creation of leasehold rights in favour of the lessee or upon an agreement to create leasehold
rights with handing over of possession. Property lease rentals, income from operation & maintenance charges and water charges are recognised on
an accrual basis as per terms of the agreement with the lessees.
		Vacation ownership
		Under the vacation ownership, holiday facilities are provided to members for a specified period each year, over a number of years, for which
membership fee is collected either in full upfront, or on a deferred payment basis.
		Revenue from sale of vacation ownership weeks is recognised when related right to use the specific property over the specific week(s) is transferred
to the buyer for a consideration.
		Income from sale of vacation ownership weeks in villas is recognised when the outcome of a villa project can be estimated reliably. Project revenue
and contract costs associated with the contract are recognised as revenue and expenses respectively by reference to the percentage of completion
of the project activity at the reporting date.
		When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense in profit or loss in
the period in which such probability occurs.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

327

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)

		

Revenue from Membership fees

		Revenue from membership fees are recognised over the tenure of membership as the performance obligation is fulfilled. The revenue which will be
recognised in future periods are disclosed under Contract Liability.
		

Non refundable admission fee is recognised as income on admission of a member.

		Entitlement fee, which entitles the members the vacation ownership facilities over the agreed membership period, are recognised as income equally
over the tenure of membership, commencing from the year of admission and disclosed under Contract Liability.
		

Revenue from Annual subscription fees

		Annual subscription fee dues from members are recognised as income on accrual basis and fees pertaining to the period beyond the year end is
disclosed under Contract Liability.
		

Interest income on deferred payment plans

		In case of deferred payment plans wherein significant financing components exists in a contract, interest income or expense is recognised over the
financing period using the Effective Interest Method.
m)

Government Grants

		The Group, directly or indirectly through a consortium of group companies, is entitled to various incentives from government authorities in respect of
manufacturing units located in developing regions. The Group accounts for its entitlement as income on accrual basis.
		Government grants that are revenue in nature, are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises
as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.
		The benefit of a government loan at a below market-rate of interest is treated as government grant and is measured as the difference between
proceeds received and the fair value of the loan based on prevailing market interest rates at the inception of the loan.
n)
		

Employee Benefits
Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund

		The Group’s contribution paid /payable during the year to Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund are recognised in profit or loss.
		Provident Fund
		Contributions to Provident Fund are made to Trusts administered by the Group/Regional Provident Fund Commissioners and are charged to profit
or loss as incurred. The Group is liable for the contribution and any shortfall in interest between the amount of interest realised by the investments
and the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India in respect of the Trust administered by the Group companies.
		

Long term Compensated Absences

		

The liability towards long term compensated absences are determined by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes

		The liability towards gratuity, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes are determined by independent
actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. Past services are recognised at the earlier of the plan amendment/curtailment and the recognition
of related restructuring costs /termination benefits.
		The obligation on long term compensated absences and other defined benefit plan are measured at the present value of estimated future cash
flows using a discount rate that is determined by reference to the market yields at the balance sheet date on government bonds (high quality
corporate bonds in case of foreign companies) where the currency and terms of the government bonds are consistent with the currency and
estimated terms of the defined benefit obligation.
		Remeasurement gains/losses
		Remeasurement of defined benefit plans, comprising of actuarial gains or losses, return on plan assets excluding interest income are recognised
immediately in balance sheet with corresponding debit or credit to other comprehensive income. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or
loss in subsequent period.
		Remeasurement gains or losses on long term compensated absences that are classified as other long term benefits are recognised in profit or loss.
		

Share based payments

		Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the
Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity.
		Share appreciation rights which are cash settled share-based payments are recognised as employee benefit expense over the relevant service
period. The liabilities are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

328

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)
o)

Borrowing Costs

		Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take
a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets
are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Interest income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their
expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit
or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
p)

Income taxes

		Current tax
		Current tax is determined as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable income for the year. The Group’s current tax is calculated using tax
rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
		Deferred tax
		Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying values of assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
period in which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the
manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
		Deferred tax assets including that on unused tax losses and unused tax credits are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable
income will be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
		

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for:

		

—	the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit,

		

—	the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill,

		

—	Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the tax laws that is not likely to give future economic benefits in the form of adjustment
to future income tax liability, and

		

—	temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements to the extent that the Group is able to control
the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

		The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
		

Current and deferred tax for the year

		Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or
directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the
business combination.
q)

Provisions

		Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision
is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks
and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying
amount is the present value of these cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material).
		Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations are recognised at the time of sale of the relevant products, at the best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation.
		Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date. At the end of the subsequent
reporting periods, such contingent liabilities are measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognised in accordance with Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Assets and Contingent Liabilities and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance
with Ind AS 115 - Revenue from contracts with customers.
r)

Leases

		At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys
the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the
right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses whether:
		­	­—	the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly or implicitly, and should be physically distinct or
represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the lessor has a substantive substitution right, then the asset
is not identified
		­	­—	the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout the period of use; and

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

329

2.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)

		­	­—	the Group as a lessee has the right to direct the use of the asset. The Group has this right when it has the decision-making rights that
are most relevant to changing how and for what purpose the asset is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and for what
purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the Group has the right to direct the use of the asset if either:
				

o

the Group as a lessee has the right to operate the asset; or

				

o

the Group as a lessee designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used

		The Group as a lessee
		The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost,
which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any
initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site
on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
		The right-of-use assets are subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the
useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if
any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.
		The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date,
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, using the incremental borrowing rate.
		It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Group’s
estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise
a purchase, extension or termination option.
		When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is
recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
		The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less
and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
The Group as lessor
		When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or an operating lease.
Whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance
lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases.
		When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sublease separately. The sublease is classified as a
finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.
		The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight- line basis over the lease term as part of ‘other
income’
s)

Business combinations

		The Group accounts for its business combinations under acquisition method of accounting. The acquiree’s identifiable assets including liabilities
and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the sum
of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held
equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed
is recognised as goodwill.
		Before recognising capital reserve in respect thereof, the Group determines whether there exists clear evidence of underlying reasons for classifying
the business combination as a bargain purchase. Thereafter, the Group reassesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and
all of the liabilities assumed and recognises any additional asset or liabilities that are identified in that reassessment. The Group then reviews the
procedures used to measure the amounts that Ind AS requires for the purposes of calculating the bargain purchase. If the gain remains after this
reassessment and review, the Group recognises it directly in equity as capital reserve.
		Non-controlling interest is initially measured at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of
measurement basis is made on an acquisition by acquisition basis. Subsequent to initial acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interest
is the amount of those interest in initial recognition plus the non-controlling interest’s share of subsequent changes in equity of subsidiaries.
		When the consideration transferred by the Group in business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting in a contingent consideration
arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition date fair value and included as a part of the consideration transferred in
a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments, are adjusted
retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill or capital reserve as the case may be.
		When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to its acquisition-date
fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition
date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be
appropriate if that interest were disposed off.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

2.

330

Significant Accounting Policies (contd.)

		If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group
reports provisional amount for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amount are adjusted during the measurement
period (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information
obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amount recognised at that date.
		In consolidated financial statements, acquisition of non-controlling interest is accounted as equity transaction. The carrying amount of the Group’s
interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between
the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in
equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
		Business Combination under common control are accounted as per Appendix C in Ind AS 103 - Business combinations, at carrying amount of assets
and liabilities acquired and any excess of consideration issued over the net assets acquired is recognised as capital reserve on common control
business combination.
t)

Acquisition of interest in associate and joint ventures

	Acquisition of interest in an associate or a joint venture, is initially recognised at cost. Any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s
share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is regarded as goodwill, which is included in the carrying amount of
the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of the investment, after
reassessment, is recognised in equity as capital reserve in the period in which the investment is acquired.
u)

Non-current assets held for sale

		Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use.
		To classify as held for sale, the asset must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, its sale must be highly probable and is marketed
for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. The Group must also be committed to the sale, which should be expected
to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
		
v)

Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
Hyperinflationary economies

		During the year, the Turkish economy has been designated as hyperinflationary. Accordingly, financial statements of entities whose functional
currency is Turkish Lira have been prepared applying IND AS 29 ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’. This primarily includes (i)
restatement of non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in the balance sheet and all items of income and expenses in the
statement of profit and loss, using the general price index at the balance sheet date, and (ii) recording gain or loss on net monetary position.
3.

Recent accounting pronouncements

	Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules as issued from time to time. On 31st March, 2023, MCA amended the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2023, applicable from 1st April, 2023, as below:
a)

Ind AS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements

		The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting policies rather than their significant accounting policies. Accounting policy
information, together with other information included in an entity’s financial statements, is material when it can reasonably be expected to influence
decisions of primary users of general purpose financial statements. The Group does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in
its financial statements.
b)

Ind AS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors

		The amendments will help entities to distinguish between accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition of a change in accounting
estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in
financial statements that are subject to measurement uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in
financial statements to be measured in a way that involves measurement uncertainty. The Group does not expect this amendment to have any
significant impact in its financial statements.
c)

Ind AS 12 - Income Taxes

		The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases and decommissioning obligations. The amendments
narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 and 24 of Ind AS 12 (recognition exemption) so that it no longer applies to
transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary differences. The Group does not expect this amendment
to have any significant impact in its financial statements.

4.

1,166.28

1,092.33

75.91

4,735.04

4,533.86

1,945.41

28.37

—

(223.20)

(33.99)

23.72

25.65

43.22

0.20

—

(0.32)

(0.37)

0.93

9,815.24

12,340.26

14,727.09

162.46

321.17

(1,306.47)

(251.51)

40.25

1,944.23

13,816.96

13,816.96

25.33

(28.89)

(687.53)

(78.14)

1,622.12

12,964.07

305.29

282.60

609.07

5.14

0.59

(1.48)

(23.04)

1.04

75.84

550.98

550.98

0.99

(11.98)

(25.83)

(5.37)

68.76

524.41

914.36

11.26

(3.96)

(28.10)

1.23

479.27

355.82

542.52

0.22

5.51

(1.31)

(108.84)

(0.91)

149.38

498.47

498.47

1.07

(1.08)

(91.21)

0.28

131.01

458.40

1,021.79

0.26

(1.69)

(137.36)

(1.18)

1.49

305.98

854.29

854.29

(1.08)

(112.08)

0.36

—

8.51

11.14

48.71

—

—

—

—

—

2.63

46.08

46.08

—

—

—

—

2.63

43.45

57.22

—

—

—

—

—

—

57.22

57.22

—

—

—

—

105.07

90.95

331.93

—

0.46

(22.78)

(25.25)

2.00

38.54

338.96

338.96

8.03

—

(28.56)

(0.50)

39.61

320.38

437.00

—

(25.01)

(35.72)

2.03

3.83

61.96

429.91

429.91

—

(28.77)

(0.52)

0.64

53.71

404.85

Office
Equipments

16,638.42

18,732.61

18,323.86

196.39

327.73

(1,555.56)

(443.00)

67.97

2,430.72

17,299.61

17,299.61

50.95

(78.44)

(846.05)

(112.67)

2,052.35

16,233.47

34,962.28

470.14

(6,545.36)

(555.88)

68.24

396.35

5,096.57

36,032.22

36,032.22

(78.44)

(948.76)

(217.02)

60.06

6,223.77

30,992.61

Total

Rupees crores

* Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.
# Out of impairment losses recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, Rs. 49.48 crores and Rs. 1.47 crores has been recognised in exceptional items and depreciation and
amortisation expense, respectively.

Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2023.....................

Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2022.........................

NET CARRYING AMOUNT................................................................

Balance as at 31st March, 2023...................................................

—

—

—

—

24.72

12.11

30.67

30.67

—

—

(0.10)

0.15

6.08

24.54

24,542.33

333.36

(6,067.33)

(282.06)

29.45

4.08

96.27

833.58

833.58

(11.98)

(45.90)

(8.00)

1.00

154.25

57.22

Aircraft

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................

Impairment losses recognised *.....................................................

Disposal of subsidiaries.......................................................................

Disposals...................................................................................................

(0.06)

207.99

1,941.52

75.97
—

1,941.52

8.57

(22.61)

(12.82)

(23.20)

75.97

6.96

(13.88)

—

(5.89)

182.14

1,809.44

66.94

0.81

(0.32)

(0.37)

1.69

183.37

4,188.32

26,157.22

26,157.22

(28.89)

(722.87)

(129.23)

0.95

104.49

811.84

Vehicles

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

Foreign exchange translation differences..................................

Depreciation expense for the year .............................................

Balance as at 1st April, 2022........................................................

Balance as at 31st March, 2022................................................

Impairment losses recognised #....................................................

Disposal of subsidiaries......................................................................

Disposals...................................................................................................

Foreign exchange translation differences..................................

—

88.78

Balance as at 1st April, 2021.......................................................

6,680.45

60.49

(232.67)

(48.73)

36.06

—

8.81

56.32

56.32

—

(1.35)

0.18

53.71

4,904.16

794.02

Furniture and
Fixtures

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Depreciation expense for the year .............................................

1,242.19

63.96

(214.38)

Balance as at 31st March, 2023................................................
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT

Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................

Disposal of subsidiaries......................................................................

(23.54)

(1.04)

60.99

328.93

106.30
142.59

6,475.38

6,475.38

(22.61)

(22.03)

1,168.30

1,168.30

(13.88)

(15.76)

(39.95)

—

0.68

22,080.34

Plant and
Equipment

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

Disposals...................................................................................................

Foreign exchange translation differences..................................

Additions through business combinations.................................

Balance as at 1st April, 2022......................................................
Additions /Transfer from capital work-in-progress during
the year....................................................................................................

Balance as at 31st March, 2022................................................

Disposal of subsidiaries......................................................................

Disposals...................................................................................................

(39.86)

—

889.46

3.76

117.02

56.81

Buildings Leasehold

BOARD’S
REPORT

Foreign exchange translation differences..................................

Additions through business combinations.................................

5,670.51

Buildings

1,117.02

Land

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

Balance as at 1st April, 2021......................................................
Additions/Transfer from capital work-in-progress during
the year....................................................................................................

COST

Particulars

Property, Plant and Equipment
a) Owned assets

331
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

4.

332

Property, Plant and Equipment (contd.)
b)

Right-of-use assets

Rupees crores
Land

Buildings

Plant and
Equipment

Furniture
and
Fixtures

Vehicles

Office
Equipments

Total

Balance as at 1st April, 2021

595.01

2,754.52

305.39

11.17

127.80

13.34

3,807.23

Additions...............................................................................................

167.95

582.76

68.58

—

58.20

3.36

880.85

Acquisitions through business combinations..............

—

2.06

—

—

—

—

2.06

Foreign exchange translation differences.....................

0.19

(22.60)

(18.37)

—

(3.06)

0.17

(43.67)

Deductions..........................................................................................

—

(120.38)

(9.17)

(0.45)

(4.28)

(1.80)

(136.08)

Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................

—

—

(20.05)

—

—

—

(20.05)

Balance as at 31 March, 2022.....................................

763.15

3,196.36

326.38

10.72

178.66

15.07

4,490.34

Balance as at 1st April, 2022............................................

763.15

3,196.36

326.38

10.72

178.66

15.07

4,490.34

Additions...............................................................................................

115.26

988.32

68.94

—

9.19

1.19

1,182.90

Acquisitions through business combinations..............

—

61.80

0.24

—

0.72

—

62.76

Foreign exchange translation differences.....................

0.66

103.51

0.57

—

(0.13)

0.75

105.36

Deductions..........................................................................................

(4.24)

(219.32)

(10.46)

(0.44)

(26.65)

(2.34)

(263.45)

Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................

(139.90)

(16.46)

(0.29)

—

(3.02)

—

(159.67)

Balance as at 31st March, 2023.....................................

734.93

4,114.21

385.38

10.28

158.77

14.67

5,418.24

Balance as at 1st April, 2021............................................

22.09

689.75

188.51

3.00

46.61

4.76

954.72

Depreciation expense for the year .................................

19.37

389.13

37.69

1.40

30.86

4.04

482.49

Foreign exchange translation differences.....................

0.05

(5.38)

(13.63)

—

(2.45)

0.11

(21.30)

Deductions..........................................................................................

—

(71.61)

(3.42)

(0.16)

(2.92)

(1.40)

(79.51)

Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................

—

—

(20.05)

—

—

—

(20.05)

Impairment losses recognised *...........................................

—

—

4.34

—

—

—

4.34

Balance as at 31st March, 2022.....................................

41.51

1,001.89

193.44

4.24

72.10

7.51

1,320.69

Balance as at 1st April, 2022............................................

41.51

1,001.89

193.44

4.24

72.10

7.51

1,320.69

Depreciation expense for the year .................................

18.37

472.12

46.70

1.27

33.26

3.00

574.72

Foreign exchange translation differences.....................

0.25

34.60

2.48

—

(0.07)

0.40

37.66

Deductions..........................................................................................

(3.93)

(181.24)

(9.45)

(0.41)

(9.72)

(2.34)

(207.09)

Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................

(16.79)

(6.77)

(0.29)

—

(1.76)

—

(25.61)

Impairment losses recognised *...........................................

—

—

—

—

4.96

—

4.96

Balance as at 31 March, 2023.....................................

39.41

1,320.60

232.88

5.10

98.77

8.57

1,705.33

Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2022...........

721.64

2,194.47

132.94

6.48

106.56

7.56

3,169.65

Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2023.....

695.52

2,793.61

152.50

5.18

60.00

6.10

3,712.91

Particulars

COST

st

ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND
IMPAIRMENT

st

NET CARRYING AMOUNT

* Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

333

4.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Property, Plant and Equipment (contd.)
Break-up of net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars

5.

2023

2022

a)

Owned Assets ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

16,638.42

18,732.61

b)

Right-of-use assets.................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,712.91

3,169.65

Total...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

20,351.33

21,902.26

Capital Work-in-Progress
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Balance at the beginning of the year....................................................................................................................................................................................

3,036.10

4,477.64

Additions during the year (including interest capitalised)........................................................................................................................................

2,682.44

4,291.06

Business combinations (net)..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

(69.10)

(0.39)

Transfer to property, plant and equipment........................................................................................................................................................................

(4,390.23)

(5,717.30)

Foreign exchange translation differences............................................................................................................................................................................

1.82

(2.85)

Hyperinflation adjustment..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

19.01

—

Impairment losses recognised *..................................................................................................................................................................................................

(57.38)

(12.06)

Balance at the end of the year ...........................................................................................................................................................................................

1,222.66

3,036.10

* Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.
Ageing of capital work-in-progress
Rupees crores
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Particulars

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................

927.40

145.63

39.05

110.58

1,222.66

Total .....................................................................................................................................................................

927.40

145.63

39.05

110.58

1,222.66

Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................

2,341.53

379.59

248.57

66.41

3,036.10

Total .....................................................................................................................................................................

2,341.53

379.59

248.57

66.41

3,036.10

As at 31st March, 2023:

As at 31st March, 2022:

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

6.

334

Goodwill
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Balance at the beginning of the year....................................................................................................................................................................................

1,340.40

1,304.90

Additions through business combinations...........................................................................................................................................................................

1,365.62

43.40

Disposal of subsidiaries.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(42.03)

—

Impairment during the year (Refer Note 32)...................................................................................................................................................................

(122.13)

—

Foreign exchange translation difference..............................................................................................................................................................................

7.04

(7.90)

Balance at the end of the year.............................................................................................................................................................................................

2,548.90

1,340.40

Segment wise allocation of goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to segments as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Automotive.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

31.96

31.96

Farm equipment.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

966.38

28.18

Financial services..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1.34

44.74

Real estate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

66.70

103.59

Hospitality..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

117.45

111.28

Others............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,365.07

1,020.65

Total...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,548.90

1,340.40

	The Group tests goodwill on an annual basis and whenever there is an indication that the CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated may be impaired.
The goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of the CGU or group of CGUs that benefit from the synergies of the acquisition and which
represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount is determined based on higher
of value‐in‐use and fair value less cost of disposal. Where there is no basis for making a reliable estimate of the price at which an orderly transaction
to sell the asset would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions, the recoverable amount
is determined by value-in-use. In determining the value-in-use, cash flow projections approved by appropriate level of management are considered. In
circumstances where a reliable value-in-use estimate is difficult to make whereas market value of the asset or the CGU or group of CGUs is readily
available, the latter is used for the determination of recoverable amount with appropriate adjustments, where applicable.
	Apart from the observable market information, significant management estimates and judgments are used to determine the recoverable amounts based
on value-in-use. Key assumptions on which management has based its determination of recoverable amount includes estimated growth rates (including
terminal growth rates), margins and discount rates. Cash flow projections are usually considered for next 3-5 years and represent management’s best
estimate about future developments with due consideration for past performance. Cash flows beyond the five‐year period are extrapolated using
terminal growth rates.
	In certain cases, the performance of the cash generating units were below their expected levels. Accordingly, the Group assessed such cash generating
units for the recoverable amounts based on fair value less cost of disposal and value-in-use estimates. The goodwill impairment had been recognised as
‘Exceptional item’ in the consolidated statement of profit and loss and is attributable to the following operating segments:
(a) ‘Farm Equipment’ segment - Rs. 78.73 crores (2022: Nil). This relates to goodwill allocated to an international subsidiary.
(b) ‘Financial services’ segment - Rs. 43.40 crores (2022: Nil). This relates to goodwill allocated to an international subsidiary.

335

7.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Other Intangible Assets

Rupees crores

Particulars

Development
Expenditure

Computer
Software

Brand License
& Trademarks

Others

Total

Balance as at 1st April, 2021.....................................................................

5,513.06

528.24

145.30

366.53

6,553.13

Additions/Transfer from intangibles assets under development
during the year........................................................................................................

1,207.02

45.44

—

38.44

1,290.90

COST

Acquisitions through business combinations.......................................

—

0.54

—

—

0.54

Foreign exchange translation differences..............................................

2.98

(2.35)

(0.29)

(2.53)

(2.19)

Deductions...................................................................................................................

(1,142.95)

(8.91)

—

(1.15)

(1,153.01)

Disposal of subsidiaries.......................................................................................

(19.56)

(1.25)

—

(5.37)

(26.18)

Balance as at 31 March, 2022..............................................................

5,560.55

561.71

145.01

395.92

6,663.19

Balance as at 1st April, 2022.....................................................................

5,560.55

561.71

145.01

395.92

6,663.19

Additions/Transfer from intangibles assets under development
during the year.........................................................................................................

3,054.82

100.35

—

21.71

3,176.88

Acquisitions through business combinations.......................................

3.44

18.93

21.91

33.06

77.34

Foreign exchange translation differences..............................................

11.15

10.49

0.88

1.34

23.86

Deductions...................................................................................................................

(573.63)

(19.92)

—

(2.60)

(596.15)

Disposal of subsidiaries.......................................................................................

(153.08)

(34.00)

—

(19.58)

(206.66)

Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................

5.43

0.93

—

15.57

21.93

Balance as at 31 March, 2023..............................................................

7,908.68

638.49

167.80

445.42

9,160.39

Balance as at 1st April, 2021.....................................................................

3,490.00

402.24

29.77

167.99

4,090.00

Amortisation expense for the year ..........................................................

865.57

66.63

5.93

29.69

967.82

Foreign exchange translation differences..............................................

2.95

(2.33)

(0.20)

(1.02)

(0.60)

Deductions...................................................................................................................

(1,142.95)

(8.91)

—

(1.15)

(1,153.01)

st

st

ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT

Disposal of subsidiaries.......................................................................................

(19.56)

(1.25)

—

(5.37)

(26.18)

Impairment losses recognised #...................................................................

6.60

2.73

—

—

9.33

Balance as at 31st March, 2022..............................................................

3,202.61

459.11

35.50

190.14

3,887.36

Balance as at 1 April, 2022

3,202.61

459.11

35.50

190.14

3,887.36

Amortisation expense for the year ..........................................................

1,197.62

81.37

6.95

37.32

1,323.26

st

Foreign exchange translation differences..............................................

10.92

8.90

0.68

1.03

21.53

Deductions...................................................................................................................

(573.63)

(19.42)

—

(0.80)

(593.85)

Disposal of subsidiaries.......................................................................................

(152.72)

(17.92)

—

(8.81)

(179.45)

Impairment losses recognised *....................................................................

459.56

0.45

—

—

460.01

Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................

—

0.32

—

1.46

1.78

Balance as at 31st March, 2023..............................................................

4,144.36

512.81

43.13

220.34

4,920.64

Net carrying amount as at 31st March, 2022....................................

2,357.94

102.60

109.51

205.78

2,775.83

Net carrying amount as at 31 March, 2023.............................

3,764.32

125.68

124.67

225.08

4,239.75

NET CARRYING AMOUNT
st

* Impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as a part of exceptional items.
# Out of impairment losses recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, Rs. 9.01 crores and Rs. 0.32 crores has been recognised in
exceptional items and depreciation and amortisation expense, respectively.
Note:
Others include technical knowhow, customer relationships, etc.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

8.

336

Intangible assets under development
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Balance at the beginning of the year....................................................................................................................................................................................

3,666.71

3,394.97

Additions during the year (including interest capitalised)........................................................................................................................................

2,303.29

1,523.55

Business combinations (net)..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

(18.84)

—

Transfer to intangible assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................

(3,054.82)

(1,207.02)

Foreign exchange translation differences............................................................................................................................................................................

0.81

7.11

Impairment losses recognised *..................................................................................................................................................................................................

(151.23)

(51.90)

Balance at the end of the year ...........................................................................................................................................................................................

2,745.92

3,666.71

* Out of impairment losses recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, Rs. 123.12 crores (2022: Rs. 48.86 crores) and Rs. 28.11 crores
(2022: Rs. 3.05 crores) has been recognised in exceptional items and depreciation and amortisation expense, respectively.
Ageing of intangible assets under development
Rupees crores
Amount in Intangibles assets under development for a period of
Particulars
As at 31st March, 2023:
Projects in progress......................................................................................................................................

9.

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

1,242.31

817.50

221.27

464.84

2,745.92

Total........................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, 2022:
Projects in progress......................................................................................................................................

1,242.31

817.50

221.27

464.84

2,745.92

1,377.76

670.84

859.57

758.54

3,666.71

Total........................................................................................................................................................................

1,377.76

670.84

859.57

758.54

3,666.71

Investments
A.

		

Non-Current Investments
a)

Measured as per equity accounting method

Particulars

		

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Quoted
Investments in Equity Instruments
— of Associates*..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

9,665.18

9,837.34

Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

9,665.18

9,837.34

Unquoted
Investments in Equity Instruments
— of Associates*..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
— of Joint ventures*........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,536.87
3,178.52

1,427.85
1,884.51

Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,715.39

3,312.36

Investments measured as per equity accounting method.......................................................................................................................................... 14,380.57

13,149.70

* Refer note 40.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

337

9.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Investments (contd.)

		

b)

Measured as per other than equity accounting method

Particulars

Rupees crores

Amortised Cost
2023

Quoted
Investments in non-convertible
25.97
debentures/bonds .....................................................
Investments in government securities......... 1,223.95
—
Investments in equity instruments $............
1,249.92
Unquoted
Investments in Preference Shares
110.90
— of Joint ventures *................................................
—
— of Other entities....................................................
Investments in Debentures/Bonds
—
— of Joint ventures *................................................
2.88
— of Other entities....................................................
Investments in Alternate Investment
Fund......................................................................................
—
—
Investments in Equity Instruments.................
113.78
Total.................................................................................... 1,363.70

FVTOCI

FVTPL

Total

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

26.10
1,270.68
—
1,296.78

351.43
4,326.21
206.58
4,884.22

262.04
4,070.25
219.44
4,551.73

—
—
172.20
172.20

—
—
0.24
0.24

377.40
5,550.16
378.78
6,306.34

288.14
5,340.93
219.68
5,848.75

—
0.03

—
—

—
—

3.43
—

8.95
—

114.33
—

8.95
0.03

—
10.56

—
1.59

—
—

65.56
—

61.18
—

65.56
4.47

61.18
10.56

—
—
10.59
1,307.37

—
31.28
32.87
4,917.09

—
86.70
86.70
4,638.43

26.24
77.71
172.94
345.14

24.75
19.93
114.81
115.05

26.24
108.99
319.59
6,625.93

24.75
106.63
212.10
6,060.85
Rupees crores

2023

2022

Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross).....................................................................................................................................

Other Disclosures:

15,971.52

15,686.09

Market Value of quoted Investments.....................................................................................................................................................................

36,369.28

46,117.60

Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross)..............................................................................................................................

5,034.98

3,524.46

* Refer note 40.
$ Investments in equity instruments measured at FVTPL includes investment in SsangYong Motor Company renamed as “KG Mobility”, which resumed
trading on a stock exchange outside India post 31st March, 2023.
B.

Current Investments

Particulars

Rupees crores
Amortised Cost

FVTOCI

FVTPL

Total

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

Investments in Debentures /Bonds...........................

—

—

24.85

31.09

100.53

—

125.38

31.09

Investments in Equity Instruments............................

—

—

*

*

—

—

*

*

Investments in Government Securities...................

50.56

41.38

570.36

420.70

—

—

620.92

462.08

Investments in Mutual Funds........................................

—

—

—

—

8,672.23

9,041.67

8,672.23

9,041.67

50.56

41.38

595.21

451.79

8,772.76

9,041.67

9,418.53

9,534.84

Quoted

Unquoted
Investments in Certificate of Deposits....................

119.56

165.35

2,004.43

852.20

1,973.02

—

4,097.01

1,017.55

Investments in Corporate Fixed Deposits.................

344.10

297.49

—

—

—

—

344.10

297.49

Investments in Commercial paper..............................

—

—

312.16

—

94.12

—

406.28

—

463.66

462.84

2,316.59

852.20

2,067.14

—

4,847.39

1,315.04

514.22

504.22

2,911.80

9,041.67 14,265.92

10,849.88

Total................................................................................................
* denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.

1,303.99 10,839.90

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

338

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

9.

Investments (contd.)
Rupees crores
Other disclosures:

2023

2022

Aggregate amount of quoted investments....................................................................................................................................................................

9,418.53

9,534.84

Market value of quoted investments.................................................................................................................................................................................

9,418.74

9,535.50

Aggregate amount of unquoted investments.............................................................................................................................................................

4,847.39

1,315.04

10. Trade Receivables

Rupees crores

Particulars

Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Secured, considered good..............................................................................................................................

4.61

4.15

45.63

42.04

Unsecured, considered good........................................................................................................................

277.99

305.28

6,982.39

6,322.21

Credit impaired......................................................................................................................................................

10.59

8.72

348.50

410.43

293.19

318.15

7,376.52

6,774.68

Less: Loss allowance.........................................................................................................................................

10.59

8.72

348.50

400.73

Total.............................................................................................................................................................................

282.60

309.43

7,028.02

6,373.95

	Refer Note 36 for disclosures related to credit risk, impairment of trade receivables under expected credit loss model and related disclosures.
Ageing of trade receivables

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due

Less than 6 months 6 months
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

Undisputed trade receivables — considered good..................

3,129.58

3,385.90

216.53

181.66

104.90

291.24

7,309.81

Undisputed trade receivables — credit impaired ...................

10.97

8.36

31.68

38.53

44.28

112.49

246.31

Disputed trade receivables — considered good .....................

—

0.14

0.04

0.25

0.14

0.24

0.81

Disputed trade receivables — credit impaired .........................

0.29

1.14

3.11

13.92

14.76

79.56

112.78

3,140.84

3,395.54

251.36

234.36

164.08

483.53

7,669.71

Less: Loss allowance ....................................................................................

(359.09)

Total Trade Receivables ....................................................................

7,310.62

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

339

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

10. Trade Receivables (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars

2022
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due

11.

Less than 6 months 6 months
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

Undisputed trade receivables — considered good..................

2,852.33

2,795.86

333.77

263.15

117.92

310.18

6,673.21

Undisputed trade receivables — credit impaired ...................

10.46

21.79

57.68

89.84

28.92

103.21

311.90

Disputed trade receivables — considered good .....................

—

0.17

0.07

0.13

0.06

0.04

0.47

Disputed trade receivables — credit impaired..........................

—

4.32

19.03

23.23

13.08

47.59

107.25

2,862.79

2,822.14

410.55

376.35

159.98

461.02

7,092.83

Less: Loss allowance ................................................................................

(409.45)

Total Trade Receivables ....................................................................

6,683.38

Loans
Particulars

a)

— Credit impaired....................................................................................................................................

c)

Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

150.34

0.81

592.56

100.89

Loans to related parties
— Unsecured, considered good......................................................................................................

b)

Rupees crores

6.00

11.00

—

—

156.34

11.81

592.56

100.89

Less: Loss allowance .........................................................................................................................

6.00

11.00

—

—

Total (a) ......................................................................................................................................................

150.34

0.81

592.56

100.89

— Secured, considered good............................................................................................................

—

—

0.06

0.06

— Unsecured, considered good......................................................................................................

48.18

155.55

211.39

114.99

— Credit impaired....................................................................................................................................

0.07

247.98

7.80

9.96

Other Loans

48.25

403.53

219.25

125.01

Less: Loss allowance ...........................................................................................................................

0.07

186.44

7.80

9.96

Total (b) ......................................................................................................................................................

48.18

217.09

211.45

115.05

— Secured, considered good............................................................................................................

50,133.14

33,547.87

24,875.47

18,833.56

— Unsecured, considered good......................................................................................................

340.54

144.21

4,201.66

3,056.21

— Significant increase in credit risk...........................................................................................

2,933.05

6,047.13

3,119.61

5,260.93

— Credit impaired....................................................................................................................................

1,382.24

1,669.47

3,118.61

4,179.81

Financial Services receivable #

54,788.97

41,408.68

35,315.35

31,330.51

Less: Loss allowance.............................................................................................................................

2,214.74

2,777.18

1,434.55

2,304.19

Total (c) ......................................................................................................................................................

52,574.23

38,631.50

33,880.80

29,026.32

Total (a)+(b)+(c)......................................................................................................................................

52,772.75

38,849.40

34,684.81

29,242.26

# Refer Note 36 for disclosures related to credit risk, impairment of financial services receivables under expected credit loss model and related
disclosures.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

12.

340

Other Financial Assets
Rupees crores
Particulars

Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

1,988.32

605.69

—

—

Financial assets at amortised cost
Bank deposits..........................................................................................................................................................
Balances with banks on margin accounts..........................................................................................

13.20

101.74

—

—

Security deposit ..................................................................................................................................................

246.77

216.78

66.87

62.36

Interest accrued on investment, other loans...................................................................................

9.74

—

436.03

419.95

Government grant receivable......................................................................................................................

1,044.09

754.61

442.42

391.76

Corporate Fixed Deposit..................................................................................................................................

—

100.00

—

—

Others...........................................................................................................................................................................

23.65

401.82

985.45

788.93

Financial Assets at Fair value
Foreign currency forwards and options, Interest rate swaps & commodity
derivatives .............................................................................................................................................................

—

4.47

20.93

265.59

Derivatives on interest over Subsidiaries and joint ventures...............................................

28.20

21.54

—

70.36

Total..............................................................................................................................................................................

3,353.97

2,206.65

1,951.70

1,998.95

13. Current Tax and Deferred Tax
a)

Income Tax recognised in profit or loss
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

In respect of current year....................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,022.74

1,860.35

In respect of prior years........................................................................................................................................................................................................

(217.25)

12.32

Unrecognised tax losses of previous year used to reduce current tax expense .......................................................................

(63.45)

(4.57)

Total Current Tax ................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,742.04

1,868.10

In respect of current year origination and reversal of temporary differences...............................................................................

(68.61)

215.04

Effect of utilisation/(recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses.......................................................................................................

(41.70)

14.23

Write down/reversal of Deferred tax assets............................................................................................................................................................

—

16.31

In respect of prior years........................................................................................................................................................................................................

54.02

(4.92)

Total Deferred Tax ................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(56.29)

240.66

Total Income Tax expense...............................................................................................................................................................................................

2,685.75

2,108.76

Current Tax

Deferred Tax

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

341

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

13. Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
b)

Income tax recognised in Other Comprehensive Income
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Effective portion of gains / (losses) on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge...............

(1.85)

(1.61)

Net change in fair value of investments in debt instruments at FVTOCI..........................................................................................

23.31

0.30

Net change in fair value of investments in equity shares at FVTOCI...................................................................................................

0.37

(0.30)

Remeasurement of defined benefit plans.................................................................................................................................................................

37.68

(35.92)

Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations — Associates.................................

(14.30)

(11.76)

Total Deferred Tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................................

45.21

(49.29)

Net change in fair value of investments in equity shares at FVTOCI...................................................................................................

(2.52)

—

Total Current Tax.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(2.52)

—

Total Income Tax expense...............................................................................................................................................................................................

42.69

(49.29)

Income taxes related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss..................................................................................

35.53

(36.22)

Income taxes related to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss............................................................................................

7.16

(13.07)

Total.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

42.69

(49.29)

Deferred Tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income:

Current Tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income:

Classification of income tax recognised in other comprehensive income:

c)

The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at tax rate to income tax expense reported in profit or loss is as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Profit Before Tax....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

14,060.23

9,361.77

Applicable Income Tax rate................................................................................................................................................................................................

25.168%

25.168%

Expected Income Tax expense........................................................................................................................................................................................

3,538.68

2,356.17

Effect of different tax rates in local and foreign tax jurisdictions........................................................................................................

(26.14)

(51.70)

Effect of income exempt from tax/non-taxable on compliance of conditions.............................................................................

(801.17)

(454.69)

Effect of income chargable at specified tax rates ..........................................................................................................................................

(255.67)

(142.06)

Effect of expenses/provisions that is non-deductible in determining taxable profit................................................................

281.32

109.66

Unrecognised tax losses of previous year used to reduce current tax expense........................................................................

(63.45)

(4.57)

Effect of unused tax losses & tax offsets for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised................................

253.53

265.44

Effect of (recognition)/utilisation of deferred tax on capital losses (net)........................................................................................

(41.70)

14.23

Write down/reversal of Deferred tax assets..........................................................................................................................................................

—

16.31

Effect of net additional /(reversal) of provision in respect of prior years .....................................................................................

(163.23)

7.40

Others................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(36.42)

(7.43)

Income tax expense recognised in consolidated statement of profit and loss....................................................................

2,685.75

2,108.76

Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported income tax expense:

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

342

13. Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
d)

Amounts on which deferred tax asset has not been created and related expiry period

		Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available
against which the Group can use the benefit therefrom.
Rupees crores
Particulars

e)

2023

2022

Deductible Temporary differences (no expiry date).........................................................................................................................................

594.09

895.84

Unused tax losses (revenue in nature)......................................................................................................................................................................

4,499.28

6,922.80

Unused tax losses (capital in nature).........................................................................................................................................................................

3,173.04

2.72

Unused tax credits...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

—

15.08

Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

8,266.41

7,836.44

Unused Tax losses — Revenue in nature
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Up to Five Years.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

683.36

735.69

More than Five Years..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

580.76

496.49

No Expiry Date............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,235.16

5,690.62

Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,499.28

6,922.80

Expiry period

f)

Unused Tax losses — Capital in nature
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Up to five years..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

14.52

2.72

More than Five Years..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,158.52

—

Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,173.04

2.72

Expiry period

g)

Unused tax credits
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

More than five years...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

—

15.08

Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

—

15.08

Expiry period

343

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

13. Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
h)	Aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for which deferred
tax liability has not been recognised:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Undistributed earnings..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

2023

2022

20,111.13

17,085.84

Movement in deferred tax balances
Year ended 31st March, 2023
Particulars

Rupees crores
Foreign
Opening Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised
exchange
in OCI
in Equity in Business
Balance in Profit or
combination/ translation
Loss
Disposal of differences
subsidiaries

Closing
Balance

Tax effect of items resulting in taxable
temporary differences
Fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets...................................................................

2,633.47

(0.91)

—

—

(593.24)

(4.12)

2,035.20

Undistributed profit of associate.........................................

67.65

15.88

16.29

(11.11)

—

—

88.71

Others.....................................................................................................

113.70

(2.44)

2.89

—

9.88

(0.30)

123.73

2,814.82

12.53

19.18

(11.11)

(583.36)

(4.42)

2,247.64

Provision for employee benefits..........................................

274.36

34.05

40.41

—

(2.86)

2.93

348.89

Allowances for expected credit loss................................

1,282.85

(279.58)

23.95

—

(37.02)

0.59

990.79

Carried forward tax losses......................................................

635.52

122.45

—

—

(478.78)

2.24

281.43

MAT credit ...........................................................................................

41.69

4.04

—

—

(44.28)

—

1.45

Unrealised gain on inter-company transactions
(net)..........................................................................................................

93.56

106.59

—

—

(46.57)

—

153.58

Others.....................................................................................................

425.05

81.27

0.03

—

(25.15)

(2.88)

478.32

2,753.03

68.82

64.39

—

(634.66)

2.88

2,254.46

(61.79)

56.29

45.21

11.11

(51.30)

7.30

6.82

Tax effect of items resulting in deductible
temporary differences

Net Deferred Tax Asset/(Liabilities)...................................

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

344

13. Current Tax and Deferred Tax (contd.)
Year ended 31st March, 2022

Rupees crores
Foreign
Opening Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised
exchange
in OCI
in Equity in Business
Balance in Profit or
combination/ translation
Loss
Disposal of differences
subsidiaries

Closing
Balance

Fiscal allowances on property, plant and equipment
and intangible assets................................................................

2,233.76

412.97

—

—

(2.72)

(10.54)

2,633.47

Undistributed profit of associates...................................

30.72

24.30

12.63

—

—

—

67.65

Particulars

Tax effect of items resulting in taxable
temporary differences

Others..................................................................................................

106.78

3.29

0.28

—

—

3.35

113.70

2,371.26

440.56

12.91

—

(2.72)

(7.19)

2,814.82

Provision for employee benefits.......................................

328.08

(16.54)

(35.92)

—

—

(1.26)

274.36

Allowances for expected credit loss.............................

1,256.35

26.44

—

—

—

0.06

1,282.85

Tax effect of items resulting in deductible
temporary differences

Carry forward tax losses.......................................................

436.58

199.89

—

—

—

(0.95)

635.52

MAT credit

32.34

9.35

—

—

—

—

41.69

Unrealised gain on inter-company transactions
(net)......................................................................................................

122.92

(29.36)

—

—

—

—

93.56

Others..................................................................................................

418.15

10.12

(0.46)

—

—

(2.76)

425.05

2,594.42

199.90

(36.38)

—

—

(4.91)

2,753.03

223.16

(240.66)

(49.29)

—

2.72

2.28

(61.79)

Net Deferred Tax Asset/(Liabilities)................................

Balances of Deferred Tax Assets /Deferred Tax Liabilities are presented in Balance sheet as below:

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023

2022

Deferred Tax Assets (net).................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,615.46

1,724.31

Deferred Tax Liabilities (net)...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,608.64

1,786.10

Net Deferred Tax Asset/(Liabilities) .........................................................................................................................................................................................

6.82

(61.79)

14. Other Assets (Non—Financial)
Particulars

Rupees crores
Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Capital Advances...................................................................................................................................................

1,304.09

980.89

—

—

Balances with government authorities (other than current taxes).................................

226.14

205.30

3,232.59

2,434.44

Contract Assets ...................................................................................................................................................

6.99

4.38

170.83

149.85

Deferred Acquisition Cost ............................................................................................................................

709.88

670.36

57.39

53.06

Others ........................................................................................................................................................................

376.51

477.99

1,749.18

1,332.18

Total ...........................................................................................................................................................................

2,623.61

2,338.92

5,209.99

3,969.53

Others include advances to suppliers, prepaid expenses.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

345

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

14. Other Assets (Non-Financial) (contd.)
Significant changes in Contract assets during the year are as follows:—
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Reclassification of opening balances of contract assets to trade receivables...........................................................................................

44.74

92.21

Adjustments due to contract modification...........................................................................................................................................................................

0.48

0.84

	In addition to the contract balances disclosed above, the group has also recognised a deferred acquisition cost in relation to some of the long—term
contracts.
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Assets recognised from cost incurred to fulfil a contract ......................................................................................................................................

767.27

723.42

Amortisation expenses recognised as cost of providing services during the year ...............................................................................

54.71

51.21

15. Inventories
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Raw materials and bought—out components
[includes in-transit Rs. 881.12 crores (2022: Rs. 641.01 crores)]....................................................................................................................

7,292.16

4,491.90

Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

463.55

277.02

Work-in-progress-property development activity and long term contracts..................................................................................................

2,210.09

1,879.21

Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,684.94

3,268.45

Stock-in-trade [includes in-transit Rs. 4.90 crores (2022: Rs. 3.93 crores)]...............................................................................................

1,335.56

1,110.29

Manufactured components...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

494.55

290.16

Stores and spares .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

279.93

181.20

Loose tools..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

81.40

84.03

Food, beverages, smokes and operating supplies.............................................................................................................................................................

12.79

13.56

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

16,854.97

11,595.82

(a)

The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year was Rs. 83,424.50 crores (2022: Rs. 58,327.89 crores)

(b)	The cost of inventories recognised as an expense include Rs. 201.51 crores (2022: Rs. 95.57 crores) in respect of write-down of inventories to net
realisable value, and has been reduced by Rs. 98.68 crores (2022: Rs. 64.14 crores) in respect of the reversal of such write downs.
(c)	Certain companies in the Group have availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit,
which are secured by hypothecation of inventories.
(d)

Mode of valuation of inventories is stated in Note 2 (i).

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

16. Cash and Cash Equivalents and Bank Balances
Particulars
a)

346

Rupees crores
2023

2022

– On current accounts.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,909.44

2,031.57

– On saving accounts................................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.03

0.03

– Fixed deposits with original maturity of less than 3 months.................................................................................................................

1,390.57

1,290.58

Cheques, drafts on hand.........................................................................................................................................................................................................

145.43

107.43

Cash on hand.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

47.94

57.98

Total.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,493.41

3,487.59

Earmarked balances with banks.......................................................................................................................................................................................

44.24

31.76

Balances with banks on margin accounts.................................................................................................................................................................

22.35

32.09

Fixed deposits................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7,713.43

7,566.17

Total.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7,780.02

7,630.02

Cash and Cash Equivalents
Balances with banks

b)

17.

Bank balances other than Cash and Cash Equivalents

Equity Share Capital
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

22,31,30,00,000 (2022: 18,10,00,00,000) Ordinary (equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each.........................................................................

11,156.50

9,050.00

25,00,000 (2022: 25,00,000) Unclassified Shares of Rs. 100 each.............................................................................................................

25.00

25.00

150,00,00,000 (2022: 150,00,00,000) Preference Shares of Rs. 10 each.............................................................................................

1,500.00

1,500.00

12,681.50

10,575.00

621.77

621.60

22.71

23.30

8,44,70,428 (2022: 8,44,70,428) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each fully paid up issued to
M&M benefit trust...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

42.24

42.24

Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up........................................................................................................................................................................

556.82

556.06

Authorised:

Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up:
1,24,35,28,831 (2022: 1,24,31,92,544) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each fully paid up....................................................
Less:
4,54,10,607 (2022: 4,65,91,301) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each fully paid up issued to M&M ESOP trust
but not yet allotted to employees..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Less:

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

347

17.

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Equity Share Capital (contd.)
(a)

Reconciliation of number of ordinary (equity) shares and amount outstanding:
2023

Particulars

2022

No.
of Shares

Rupees
Crores

No.
of Shares

Rupees
Crores

At the beginning of the year............................................................................................ 1,24,31,92,544

621.60

1,24,31,92,544

621.60

3,36,287

0.17

—

—

1,24,35,28,831

621.77

1,24,31,92,544

621.60

Shares issued to M&M ESOP Trust but not allotted to Employees............

4,54,10,607

22.71

4,65,91,301

23.30

Shares issued to M&M Benefit Trust................................................................................

8,44,70,428

42.24

8,44,70,428

42.24

Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital.......................... 1,11,36,47,796

556.82

1,11,21,30,815

556.06

Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up:
Add:
Shares issued under scheme of arrangement...........................................................

Less:

(b)

The Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company rank pari-passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend.

(c)	Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the aggregate shares in the Company’s Issued, Subscribed and
Paid-up:
Name of the Shareholder

2023

2022

No.
of Shares

%
Shareholding

No.
of Shares

%
Shareholding

Prudential Management & Services Private Limited.....................................................

14,15,21,940

11.38

14,15,21,940

11.38

M&M Benefit Trust.................................................................................................................................

8,44,70,428

6.79

8,44,70,428

6.79

Life Insurance Corporation of India............................................................................................

6,21,30,470

5.00

8,55,54,624

6.88

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

17.

348

Equity share capital (contd.)
(d)

Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by promoters in the Company’s Paid-up Share Capital:
2023

Name of the Promotors

2022

No.
of Shares

%
Shareholding

% Change
during the
year

No.
of Shares

%
Shareholding

% Change
during the
year

Anand Mahindra.....................................................

14,30,008

0.12%

—

14,30,008

0.12%

—

Keshub Mahindra..................................................

8,84,592

0.07%

—

8,84,592

0.07%

—

Sub Total (A)..........................................................

23,14,600

0.19%

23,14,600

0.19%

Anjali K Mahindra..................................................

2,04,438

0.02%

0.00%

2,12,208

0.02%

0.00%

Anuradha Mahindra.............................................

4,57,090

0.04%

—

4,57,090

0.04%

—

Dhruv S Sharma....................................................

30,000

0.00%

—

30,000

0.00%

—

Deveshwar Jagat Sharma...............................

30,000

0.00%

—

30,000

0.00%

—

Gautam P Khandelwal......................................

4,600

0.00%

—

4,600

0.00%

—

Leena S Labroo......................................................

12,51,884

0.10%

—

12,51,884

0.10%

—

Nisheeta Labroo....................................................

1,60,500

0.01%

—

1,60,500

0.01%

0.00%

Aneesha Labroo.....................................................

1,60,000

0.01%

—

1,60,000

0.01%

—

Radhika Nath...........................................................

93,616

0.01%

—

93,616

0.01%

—

Sanjay Labroo.........................................................

2,89,440

0.02%

0.01%

1,45,440

0.01%

—

Sudha Keshub Mahindra..................................

14,52,032

0.12%

—

14,52,032

0.12%

—

Uma R Malhotra....................................................

10,09,604

0.08%

—

10,09,604

0.08%

—

Yuthica Keshub Mahindra...............................

6,44,744

0.05%

0.01%

7,16,744

0.06%

0.00%

Kema Services International Private
Limited..........................................................................

7,34,832

0.06%

—

7,34,832

0.06%

—

Prudential Management and Services
Private Limited.........................................................

14,15,21,940

11.38%

—

14,15,21,940

11.38%

—

M&M Benefit Trust..............................................

8,44,70,428

6.79%

—

8,44,70,428

6.79%

—

Sub Total (B).........................................................

23,25,15,148

18.68%

23,24,50,918

18.69%

Total (A+B)...............................................................

23,48,29,748

18.87%

23,47,65,518

18.88%

Promoters:

Promoter Group:

(e)

For the period of preceding five years as on the balance sheet date, Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital includes:

		

i)	Aggregate of 8,40,175 (2022: 5,03,888) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Schemes of Arrangement
without payment having been received in cash.

		

ii)	Aggregate of 62,15,96,272 (2022: 62,15,96,272) Ordinary (Equity) Shares allotted as fully paid-up by way of bonus shares.

18. Details of proposed dividend
Particulars

2023

2022

Proposed Dividend per equity share (Rs.) ...........................................................................................................................................................................

16.25

11.55

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

349

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

19. Borrowings
A.

Long Term Borrowings

		

Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

15,802.27

13,875.13

27,155.80

19,050.97

Secured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Debentures & Bonds...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Term Loan
(i)

From Banks...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(ii)

From other parties..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

109.85

154.95

43,067.92

33,081.05

6,981.02

9,382.81

945.06

1,969.24

Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Debentures & Bonds...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Term Loan
(i)

From banks...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(ii)

From other parties..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

150.01

—

Deposits...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,564.76

3,557.35

Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

263.91

379.90

Loan from related parties.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

54.71

254.71

11,959.47

15,544.01

55,027.39

48,625.06

Total.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

		Other loans primarily comprise of deferred sales tax loans which are interest free and repayable in five equal installments after ten years from the
year of availment of respective loan.
		The borrowings carry varying rates of interest upto 9.55% p.a. and have maturities starting from 2023 and ending with 2063.
B.

Short Term Borrowings
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

21.27

875.52

– From banks and cash credit account..........................................................................................................................................................................

445.70

488.26

Term loan from banks................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,616.31

953.57

3,083.28

2,317.35

Deposits...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

792.62

1,350.68

Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

214.71

229.88

643.44

215.22

Secured (Carried at Amortised Cost):
Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Loans repayable on demand

Unsecured (Carried at Amortised Cost):

Loans repayable on demand
– From Banks and Cash credit account.........................................................................................................................................................................
Loan from related parties.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

22.77

18.45

Commercial Papers......................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,936.00

993.03

Term Loan from Banks..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

379.36

245.00

5,988.90

3,052.26

Current maturities of long-term debt............................................................................................................................................................................

24,667.44

20,672.51

Total ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

33,739.62

26,042.12

		Secured borrowings are secured by a pari-passu charge on immovable properties of certain entities in the Group both present and future, subject to
certain exclusions and are also secured by pari-passu charge on the movable properties of certain entities including inventories, movable machinery,
machinery spares, tools and accessories, both present and future, subject to certain exclusions.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

350

19. Borrowings (contd.)
		

Reconciliation of movement in borrowings and lease liabilities to cash flow from financing activities
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

– Long term borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

48,625.06

52,778.37

– Non Current lease liabilities...............................................................................................................................................................................................

2,432.55

2,128.19

– Short term borrowings..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

26,042.12

25,180.00

– Current lease liabilities..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

505.48

538.27

– Unclaimed matured deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................

11.31

5.52

Total Opening Balance..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

77,616.52

80,630.35

– Proceeds from borrowings.................................................................................................................................................................................................

55,622.41

53,879.94

– Repayment of borrowings...................................................................................................................................................................................................

(37,572.29)

(56,937.78)

– Net increase in Loans repayable on demand and cash credit ................................................................................................................

516.71

(285.21)

– Repayment of lease liabilities ........................................................................................................................................................................................

(750.78)

(583.23)

17,816.05

(3,926.28)

– Addition to lease liabilities during the year .........................................................................................................................................................

1,078.77

779.94

– On account of acquisition /(disposal) of subsidiaries (net) .......................................................................................................................

(4,620.31)

101.44

– Forward contract adjustments........................................................................................................................................................................................

—

71.75

– Other adjustments...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

155.09

124.69

– Effect of amortisation of loan origination costs and foreign exchange translation.................................................................

205.61

(165.37)

(3,180.84)

912.45

– Long Term Borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

55,027.39

48,625.06

– Non Current lease liabilities...............................................................................................................................................................................................

2,882.50

2,432.55

– Short Term Borrowings.........................................................................................................................................................................................................

33,739.62

26,042.12

– Current lease liabilities..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

597.34

505.48

– Unclaimed matured Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................

4.88

11.31

Total Closing Balance.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

92,251.73

77,616.52

Opening balance

Cash flow movements

Non-cash movements

Closing Balance

20. Trade Payables
Particulars

Rupees crores
Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Acceptances............................................................................................................................................................

—

—

1,336.47

1,570.69

Trade payable — Micro and small enterprises................................................................................

—

—

363.63

195.51

Trade payable — Other than micro and small enterprises....................................................

0.04

1.55

22,135.56

17,270.35

Total.............................................................................................................................................................................

0.04

1.55

23,835.66

19,036.55

351

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

20. Trade Payables (contd.)
Ageing of trade payables

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

Trade payable
MSME .....................................................................................

270.50

91.64

0.58

0.09

0.82

363.63

Others ...................................................................................

12,250.46

5,751.78

128.97

50.28

77.62

18,259.11

Disputed dues — Others ..........................................

—

0.22

—

0.04

1.06

1.32

12,520.96

5,843.64

129.55

50.41

79.50

18,624.06

Accrued Expenses ........................................................
Net trade payables ...................................................

5,211.64
12,520.96

5,843.64

129.55

50.41

79.50

23,835.70
Rupees crores

Particulars

2022
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due

Less than
1 year

1-2 years

2-3 years

More than
3 years

Total

MSME .....................................................................................

131.99

59.68

0.16

0.33

0.41

192.57

Others ...................................................................................

10,103.97

4,414.61

206.40

83.82

99.84

14,908.64

Disputed dues — MSME ............................................

0.95

—

—

—

1.59

2.54

Trade payable

Disputed dues — Others ..........................................

0.04

0.92

0.86

2.48

1.11

5.41

10,236.95

4,475.21

207.42

86.63

102.95

15,109.16

Accrued Expenses ........................................................
Net trade payables ...................................................
21.

3,928.94
10,236.95

4,475.21

207.42

86.63

102.95

Other Financial Liabilities
Particulars

19,038.10
Rupees crores

Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

—

—

17.18

17.16

Carried at Amortised Cost
Unclaimed dividends #.....................................................................................................................................
Unclaimed matured deposits and interest accrued thereon................................................

—

—

4.88

11.31

Interest accrued...................................................................................................................................................

220.91

337.29

1,857.12

1,892.91

Others..........................................................................................................................................................................

525.40

554.36

2,198.00

2,385.02

Foreign currency forwards and options, Interest rate swaps & commodity
derivatives ..............................................................................................................................................................

131.34

143.53

141.37

93.63

Derivatives on interest over joint ventures......................................................................................

—

—

—

22.22

Carried at Fair value

Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interest

92.80

370.86

206.39

—

Compulsorily convertible Preference shares *................................................................................

400.00

—

—

—

Total.............................................................................................................................................................................

1,370.45

1,406.04

4,424.94

4,422.25

	# There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund.
* Refer Note 38

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

352

22. Provisions
Rupees crores
Particulars

Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Provision for employee benefits.................................................................................................................

1,193.29

1,021.88

395.53

336.91

Provision for warranties...................................................................................................................................

575.38

441.44

548.89

423.55

Provision for service coupons......................................................................................................................

27.76

29.80

112.31

81.54

Provision for others.............................................................................................................................................

19.52

4.87

132.75

126.19

Total...............................................................................................................................................................................

1,815.95

1,497.99

1,189.48

968.19

	Provision for warranty relates to provision made in respect of sale of certain products, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the time of sale.
The products are generally covered under a free warranty period ranging from 6 months to 8 years.
The movement in provision for warranty and service coupon is as follows:
Particulars

Rupees crores
Provision for warranty

Provision for service coupons

2023

2022

2023

2022

Opening Balance...................................................................................................................................................

864.99

803.01

111.34

99.24

Additional net provisions recognised during the year...............................................................

770.42

455.06

151.98

117.24

Amounts utilised during the year.............................................................................................................

(454.20)

(409.42)

(127.22)

(108.24)

Unwinding of discount......................................................................................................................................

26.54

24.33

3.97

3.10

Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................................................................

(81.73)

(1.62)

—

—

Foreign exchange translation differences...........................................................................................

(1.75)

(6.37)

—

—

Closing Balance..................................................................................................................................................

1,124.27

864.99

140.07

111.34

23. Other Non-Financial Liabilities
Particulars

Rupees crores
Non Current

Current

2023

2022

2023

2022

Statutory dues (other than income taxes).........................................................................................

—

—

2,935.73

2,206.89

Contract Liabilities................................................................................................................................................

5,525.28

5,249.92

2,748.64

2,322.62

Others............................................................................................................................................................................

—

—

492.01

392.21

Total...............................................................................................................................................................................

5,525.28

5,249.92

6,176.38

4,921.72

Contract liabilities represents deferred revenue and advance received from customers.
Significant changes in Contract liabilities during the year are as follows:—
Particulars
Recognition of revenue arising from contract liabilities.............................................................................................................................................

Rupees crores
2023

2022

1,845.09

1,444.04

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

353

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

24. Revenue from Operations
Revenue from operations comprises of:

Rupees crores

Particulars
(a)

From contract with customers (as defined under Ind AS 115)
Sale of products..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Sale of services............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Income from long term contracts..................................................................................................................................................................................
Other operating revenue.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

(b)

From financial services
Interest income of financial services business......................................................................................................................................................

(c)

Others
Government grant and incentives..................................................................................................................................................................................
Other operating revenue.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

Total (a + b + c)......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2023

2022

96,454.75
9,819.95
613.68
1,051.85
1,07,940.23

69,084.62
8,032.54
399.46
816.61
78,333.23

12,152.00
12,152.00

10,923.82
10,923.82

837.84
338.48
1,176.32

517.06
396.46
913.52

1,21,268.55

90,170.57

	The Group undertakes periodic revalidations in the estimate of variable consideration on account of various economic factors. The amount of revenue
recognised from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods is aggregating to Rs. 145.01 crores (2022: Rs. 166.28 crores).
	The following table includes revenue expected to be recognised in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially
unsatisfied) at the reporting date:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

2,071.81
5,900.98
3,048.00
11,020.79

2,253.92
4,663.57
2,990.27
9,907.76

Time Band
Less than 1 year......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Greater than 1 year but less than 5 years..........................................................................................................................................................................
Greater than 5 years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

	The Group applies the practical expedient of Ind AS 115 and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original
expected duration of one year or less. Revenue disclosed above does not include estimated amount of variable consideration that are constrained.
Reconciliation of revenue recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss with contracted price
Rupees crores
Particulars
Revenue from contract with customer as per the contract price

2023

2022

1,11,330.48

80,262.69

Adjustments made to contract price
–
Trade discounts, volume rebates, return etc...........................................................................................................................................................
–
Deferrment of revenue..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
–
Recognition of revenue out of opening balance of contract liabilities...............................................................................................

(5,044.87)
(190.47)
1,845.09

(3,162.81)
(210.69)
1,444.04

Revenue from contract with customer as per the consolidated statement of profit and loss......................................

1,07,940.23

78,333.23

Revenue disaggregation as per nature of products and geography has been included in segment information. (Refer note 42).
25. Other Income
Particulars
Interest Income
– On financial assets carried at amortised cost................................................................................................................................................................
– On financial assets carried at FVTOCI..................................................................................................................................................................................
Dividend income
– Mutual funds...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Net gains/(losses) on financial instruments.........................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-operating income (net of directly attributable expenses)...............................................................................................................
Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Rupees crores
2023

2022

433.39
88.88

412.38
4.11

5.74
426.73
251.75
1,206.49

1.89
355.65
160.48
934.51

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

26. Cost of Materials Consumed
Particulars

354

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Opening inventory..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,491.90

3,357.03

Add: Purchases..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

71,175.69

47,523.54

75,667.59

50,880.57

Adjustment on account of business combination/(disposal) of subsidiary (net)........................................................................................

19.47

(20.06)

Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................................................................................................................................................

45.78

—

75,732.84

50,860.51

Less: Closing Inventory........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7,292.16

4,491.90

Foreign currency translation difference..................................................................................................................................................................................

37.29

(103.13)

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

68,477.97

46,265.48

27. Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,268.45

2,717.90

Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

277.02

360.17

Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,110.29

935.93

Inventories at the beginning of the year

Manufactured components...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

290.16

148.95

4,945.92

4,162.95

Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(55.84)

(10.77)

Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

26.27

(13.16)

Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(6.97)

(2.99)

Manufactured components...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

16.15

—

(20.39)

(26.92)

Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

24.44

—

Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

17.49

—

41.93

—

Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,684.94

3,268.45

Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

463.55

277.02

Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,335.56

1,110.29

Less: Inventories on business combination/(disposal) of subsidiaries (net)

Less: Hyperinflation adjustment

Less: Inventories at the end of the year

Manufactured components...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

494.55

290.16

6,978.60

4,945.92

Foreign currency translation difference..................................................................................................................................................................................

(21.17)

(51.77)

Net (increase)/decrease in inventories..............................................................................................................................................................................

(2,032.31)

(861.66)

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

355

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

28. Employee Benefits Expense
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Salaries and wages, including bonus.........................................................................................................................................................................................

8,412.38

7,277.66

Contribution to provident and other funds..........................................................................................................................................................................

581.26

517.48

Share based payment expenses...................................................................................................................................................................................................

146.08

108.42

Staff welfare expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

538.23

483.18

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

9,677.95

8,386.74

29. Finance Cost
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost........................................................................................................................................

5,514.75

4,755.55

Interest on lease liabilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................

184.74

159.05

Other borrowing cost...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

130.21

103.45

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

5,829.70

5,018.05

Out of the above, finance cost related to:
–

Financial services business..................................................................................................................................................................................................

5,079.63

4,392.60

–

Others.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

750.07

625.45

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

5,829.70

5,018.05

Other borrowing cost mainly includes discounting charges and unwinding of discount on financial liabilities other than lease liability.
30. Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment Expense
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment................................................................................................................................................................

2,430.72

2,052.35

Depreciation of right-of-use assets............................................................................................................................................................................................

574.72

482.49

Amortisation of intangible assets................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,323.26

967.82

Impairment of property, plant & equipment, intangible and intangible under development............................................................

28.11

4.84

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,356.81

3,507.50

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

31. Other Expenses

356

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023

2022

Stores consumed.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

579.51

273.86

Tools consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

78.54

57.09

Power & fuel...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

830.48

541.27

Rent including lease rentals @......................................................................................................................................................................................................

323.82

271.95

Insurance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

195.04

183.15

Repairs and maintenance..................................................................................................................................................................................................................

715.40

641.94

Advertisement...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

652.97

556.16

Commission on sales /contracts (net)......................................................................................................................................................................................

491.77

241.96

Freight outward........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,863.83

3,865.75

Sales promotion expenses................................................................................................................................................................................................................

551.29

486.71

Travelling and conveyance expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................

603.15

371.99

Cost of projects........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

607.90

558.30

Subcontracting, hire and service charges..............................................................................................................................................................................

1,857.07

1,593.08

Provision for expected credit losses including write offs (net) $.........................................................................................................................

1,287.53

2,758.51

Miscellaneous expenses #................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,679.45

2,896.07

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

17,317.75

15,297.79

	@ Short term leases and low value leases recognised as an expense for the year ended 31 March, 2023 is aggregating to Rs. 306.10 crores
(2022: Rs. 250.52 crores) and Rs. 17.72 crores (2022: Rs. 21.43 crores) respectively.
# Miscellaneous expenses includes gain on net monetary position for the year ended 31st March, 2023 is aggregating to Rs. 32.02 crores
(2022: Rs. Nil).
st

$ Break-up of expected credit loss recognised during the year is as follows:Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

Expected credit loss on:
–

Trade receivables........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

85.32

38.04

–

Contract assets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.48

0.84

–

Financial services receivable..............................................................................................................................................................................................

1,203.79

2,725.50

–

Other financial assets..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

(2.06)

(5.87)

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,287.53

2,758.51

357

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

32. Exceptional items (net)
Exceptional items (net) recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

2,983.54

474.28

Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets.................................................................................................................................

(332.69)

(53.82)

Gain on change in ownership interests in subsidiaries (resulting in loss of control), associates and joint ventures and
change of relationships.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Impairments:
Intangible assets.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(460.01)

(9.01)

Capital work-in-progress and Intangible under development.....................................................................................................................

(180.50)

(60.91)

Capital advances.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(10.46)

(46.45)

Other assets...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(636.12)

—

Goodwill.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(122.13)

—

Investment accounted using equity method (net)..............................................................................................................................................

7.89

82.76

Profit on sale of land...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

—

27.32

Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,249.52

414.17

 s described in note 2(h), the Group reviews for indication of asset impairment at the end of reporting date in addition to any impairment
A
indicators that may arise in between the two reporting periods. If there is any indication of asset impairment, the Group estimates the recoverable
amount of the asset to determine the amount of the impairment loss. During the year ended 31st March, 2023, the internal and external sources of
information on the economic environment in which these entities operate, provided indicators of asset impairment for certain international subsidiaries.
Consequently, impairment has been recognised for property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, capital work-in-progress, intangible assets
under development, capital advance and other intangible assets of certain CGUs amounting to Rs. 983.66 crores during the year ended 31st March, 2023
(2022: Rs. 170.19 crores).
	As detailed in note 6, impairment of goodwill amounting to Rs. 122.13 crores has been recognised during the year ended 31st March, 2023
(2022: Rs. Nil).
	Further, as described in the note 2(c), the investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted using equity method as per Ind AS 28 – Investments
in Associates and Joint Ventures. As required by Ind AS 28, after application of the equity method, the Group assesses if there is any objective evidence
based on observable data that its net investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired. Based on the observable evidence, certain investments
in associate and joint ventures were tested for recoverable amounts and impairment reversal (net) amounting to Rs. 7.89 crores has been recognised
during the year ended 31st March, 2023 (2022: Rs. 82.76 crores).
33. Earnings Per Share (EPS)
Particulars

2023

2022

Profit for the year for basic EPS (Rupees crores)........................................................................................................................................................

10,281.50

6,577.32

Profit for the year for diluted EPS (Rupees crores)....................................................................................................................................................

10,274.34

6,562.38

Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing basic EPS....................................................................

1,11,26,19,910

1,11,09,43,402

Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary (Equity) Shares...................................................................................................................................................

46,94,100

45,87,607

Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing diluted EPS...............................................................

1,11,73,14,010

1,11,55,31,009

Basic Earnings per share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs. 5 per share)...........................................................................................................................

92.41

59.20

Diluted Earnings per share (Rs.)...................................................................................................................................................................................................

91.96

58.83

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

358

34. Employee Benefits
General description of defined benefit plans
Gratuity
	Some of the group entities operate a gratuity plan covering qualifying employees. The benefit payable is the greater of the amount calculated as per the
Payment of Gratuity Act or the Company scheme applicable to the employee. The benefit vests upon completion of five years of continuous service and once
vested it is payable to employees on retirement or on termination of employment. In case of death while in service, the gratuity is payable irrespective of
vesting. Some entities makes annual contribution to the group gratuity scheme administered by the Life Insurance Corporation of India through its Gratuity
Trust Fund.
Post retirement medical
	Few entities in the Group provide post retirement medical cover to select grade of employees to cover the retiring employee and their spouse upto a
specified age through mediclaim policy on which the premiums are paid. The eligibility of the employee for the benefit as well as the amount of medical
cover purchased is determined by the grade of the employee at the time of retirement.
Post retirement housing allowance
	The Company operates a post retirement benefit scheme for a certain grade of employees in which a monthly allowance determined on the basis of the
last drawn basic salary at the time of retirement, is paid to the retiring employee in lieu of housing.
Risk exposure
Through its defined benefit plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:
Asset volatility
	The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to government bond yields; if plan assets underperform compared to this yield,
this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans may hold equity type assets, which may carry volatility and associated risk.
Changes in bond yields
	A decrease in government bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plan’s
investment in debt instruments.
Inflation risk
	The present value of some of the defined benefit plan obligations are calculated with reference to the future salaries of plan participants. As such, an
increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. The post retirement medical benefit obligation is sensitive to medical inflation
and accordingly, an increase in medical inflation rate would increase the plan’s liability.
Life expectancy
	The present value of defined benefit plan obligation is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants, both during and
after the employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

359

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

34. Employee Benefits (contd.)
Defined benefit plans - Actuarial valuation as on 31st March, 2023
Rupees crores
Particulars

Funded Plan

Unfunded Plans

Gratuity
2023
1

2

Gratuity*
2022

2023

2022

Post retirement
medical benefits

Post retirement
housing allowance

2023

2023

2022

2022

Amounts recognised in profit
or loss
Current service cost............................

99.59

Past service cost...................................

0.36

—

—

—

—

Net interest expense..........................

2.50

3.70

2.78

3.17

3.08

Total amount included in
employee benefits expense ............

102.45

100.51

37.80

22.64

3.88

6.39

– demographic assumptions.

0.87

(15.96)

(0.17)

1.13

(0.01)

(7.93)

—

—

– financial assumptions...........

(48.80)

(52.80)

17.46

4.51

(2.47)

(3.14)

(5.03)

(7.27)

96.81

35.02

19.47

0.80

3.12

2.42

1.30

0.01

—

35.39

3.26

7.83

5.32

10.25

42.01

Amounts recognised in other
comprehensive income
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
a)	Actuarial (gains)/losses
arising from changes in -

3

– experience adjustments.....

14.63

52.56

4.65

(3.16)

1.50

0.41

(1.33)

2.16

b)	Return on plan assets,
excluding amount included
in net interest expense/
(income).............................................

7.63

(8.78)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total amount recognised in
other comprehensive income.....

(25.67)

(24.98)

21.94

2.48

(0.98)

(10.66)

(6.36)

(5.11)

Opening defined benefit
obligation...................................................

1,300.74

1,240.08

249.67

312.11

46.54

52.46

117.11

88.17

Current service cost..........................

99.59

96.81

35.02

19.47

0.80

3.12

2.42

1.30

Past service cost.................................

0.36

—

—

—

—

0.01

—

35.39

Changes in the defined
benefit obligation

Interest expense..................................

74.16

63.71

2.78

3.17

3.08

3.26

7.83

5.32

Remeasurements (gains)/losses

(33.30)

(16.20)

21.94

2.48

(0.98)

(10.66)

(6.36)

(5.11)

Benefits paid...........................................

(121.41)

(118.74)

(31.95)

(11.51)

(0.93)

(1.65)

(8.85)

(7.96)

Liability transferred on account
of employees transferred..............

14.19

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Business combination.......................

15.70

—

14.21

0.66

0.72

—

—

—

Disposal of subsidiaries...................

(35.41)

—

—

(6.01)

—

—

—

—

Change in plan on common
control transaction.............................

—

41.93

—

(41.93)

—

—

—

—

Foreign exchange translation
difference..................................................

8.15

(6.85)

(4.08)

(28.77)

—

—

—

—

Closing defined benefit
obligation...................................................

1,322.77

1,300.74

287.59

249.67

49.23

46.54

112.15

117.11

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

360

34. Employee Benefits (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars

Funded Plan

Unfunded Plans

Gratuity

4

5

Gratuity*
2023

2022

Post retirement
medical benefits

Post retirement
housing allowance

2023

2023

2023

2022

2022

2022

Opening fair value of plan
assets...........................................................

1,215.71

1,161.84

—

—

—

—

—

—

Interest income.....................................

71.66

60.01

—

—

—

—

—

—

Return on plan assets
excluding interest income.............

(7.63)

8.78

—

—

—

—

—

—

Contributions by employer............

118.43

109.92

—

—

0.93

1.65

8.85

7.96

Benefits paid...........................................

(121.41)

(118.74)

—

—

(0.93)

(1.65)

(8.85)

(7.96)

Business combination.......................

13.25

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Disposal of subsidiaries...................

(16.06)

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Foreign exchange translation
difference..................................................

7.58

(6.10)

—

—

—

—

—

—

Closing fair value of plan
assets...........................................................

1,281.53

1,215.71

—

—

—

—

—

—

Changes in fair value of plan
assets

Net defined benefit obligation
Defined benefit obligation.............

1,322.77

1,300.74

287.59

249.67

49.23

46.54

112.15

117.11

Fair value of plan assets .............

1,281.53

1,215.71

—

—

—

—

—

—

Surplus/(Deficit)....................................

(41.24)

(85.03)

(287.59)

(249.67)

(49.23)

(46.54)

(112.15)

(117.11)

Current portion of the above.....

(8.47)

(10.71)

(10.46)

(18.62)

(2.61)

(2.24)

(8.85)

(8.85)

Non current portion of the
above............................................................

(32.77)

(74.32)

(277.13)

(231.05)

(46.62)

(44.30)

(103.30)

(108.26)
Rupees crores

Particulars
6

2023

2022

Actuarial Assumptions and sensitivity
a Actuarial assumptions
Discount rate (%).................................................................................................................................................................................................................

0.63 - 7.50

1.10 - 7.30

Attrition rate (%)..................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1.52 - 60.68

1.80 - 46.35

Cost inflation (%)..................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7.00 - 9.00

7.00 - 9.00

	
Cost inflation includes an estimate of medical inflation and future salary increases taking in to account of inflation, seniority, promotion and
other relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market.
b	Quantitative sensitivity analysis for impact of significant assumptions on defined benefit obligation are as below:
Assumptions
One percentage point increase in discount rate ..........................................................................................................................................

(170.43)

(176.67)

One percentage point decrease in discount rate ........................................................................................................................................

190.82

178.33

One percentage point increase in salary growth rate...............................................................................................................................

151.67

145.70

One percentage point decrease in salary growth rate..............................................................................................................................

(139.02)

(139.26)

One percentage point increase in attrition rate.............................................................................................................................................

(57.96)

(36.57)

One percentage point decrease in attrition rate...........................................................................................................................................

58.95

37.73

One percentage point increase in medical inflation rate .......................................................................................................................

5.73

5.99

One percentage point decrease in medical inflation rate .....................................................................................................................

(4.86)

(5.05)

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

361

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

34. Employee Benefits (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars
7

2023

2022

Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
Time periods
Upto 1 year.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

232.81

224.11

1 - 5 years.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

852.17

753.09

6 - 9 years.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

576.12

556.62

10 years and above.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,396.59

1,323.69

Trust-managed Provident fund

Rupees crores

Particulars
I

2023

2022

Defined benefit obligation.....................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,355.68

3,004.62

Fair value of plan assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,190.06

3,004.62

Surplus/(Deficit)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(165.62)

—

Discount rate..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7.45%

6.95%

Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio (years)...........................................................................................................................

5.35

4.63

Guaranteed rate of return....................................................................................................................................................................................................

8.15%

8.10%

Net defined benefit obligation

II

Actuarial assumptions

		The Company has recognised an obligation of Rs. 165.62 crores (2022: Nil) on account of interest rate guarantee through OCI.
		

The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds.

		Group’s contribution (in respect of companies where applicable) for Provident Fund and Superannuation Fund aggregating Rs. 441.01 crores
(2022: Rs. 394.33 crores) has been recognised in the Profit or Loss under the head ‘Employee Benefits Expense’.
35. Capital management
	The Group’s capital management strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. The same is done
through a mix of either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term /long term debt as may be appropriate.
	The Group determines the amount of capital required on the basis of its product, capital expenditure, operations and strategic investment plans.
The capital structure is monitored on the basis of equity, net debt and maturity profile of overall debt portfolio of the Group.
	The retail loan finance business of the companies in financial service business is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) and National Housing Bank (NHB). Under capital adequacy guidelines, these companies are required to maintain a capital adequacy ratio
consisting of Tier I and Tier II Capital. The total of Tier II Capital at any point of time, shall not exceed 100 percent of Tier I Capital. The Group companies
in the financial services business have complied with all regulatory requirements related to regulatory capital and capital adequacy ratios as prescribed
by RBI and NHB.
Net Debt and Equity other than financial services segment is given in the table below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

50,346.37

41,993.81

Short term debt (including current portion of long term debt)..............................................................................................................

4,127.05

3,606.15

Long term debt............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,450.59

9,189.75

		Gross Debt..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7,577.64

12,795.90

11,247.44

8,840.43

Total Equity...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Net Debt

Less:
Current investments.................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash and Bank Balances.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

7,312.77

6,400.57

		Net Debt...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(10,982.57)

(2,445.10)

Total Capital deployed....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

39,363.80

39,548.71

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

362

36. Financial Instruments
Financial Risk Management Framework
	In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to a certain financial risks namely credit risk, interest risk, currency risk & liquidity risk. The Group’s
primary focus is to achieve better predictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects on its financial performance.
	The financial risks are managed in accordance with the risk management policy which has been approved by Board of Directors of the respective
Group companies.
	Board of Directors of financial services businesses have established Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO), which is responsible for developing
and monitoring risk management policies for their businesses. The financial services businesses are exposed to high credit risk given the unbanked rural
customer base and diminishing value of collateral. The credit risk is managed through credit norms established based on historical experience.
(a) Market Risk Management
		Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates etc. could affect the Group’s income or the
value of its holdings of financial instruments including cash flow. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk
exposures within acceptable parameters, while maximising the return.
		

(i)

Currency Risk

			The Group’s exposure to currency risk relates primarily to the Group’s operating activities including anticipated sales & purchase and borrowings
where the transactions are denominated in foreign currencies.
			The Group’s foreign currency exposures are managed within approved parameters. The Group hedges its foreign currency risk mainly by way
of Forward Covers. Other derivative instruments may also be used if deemed appropriate.
			

The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency exposure at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Particulars

Rupees crores

US Dollar

Euro

JPY

KRW

Others

Total

Financial Assets .............................................................................

1,055.27

1,944.10

1.36

—

877.51

3,878.24

Financial Liabilities ......................................................................

1,577.52

2,013.41

1,750.01

3.08

80.85

5,424.87

Financial Assets .............................................................................

1,764.01

1,646.55

8.28

454.71

326.90

4,200.45

Financial Liabilities ......................................................................

3,625.70

1,908.33

947.56

23.50

108.03

6,613.12

As at 31st March, 2023

As at 31st March, 2022

			Hedge Accounting - Forwards
			Contracts that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are accounted as per the hedge accounting requirements of Ind AS 109 - Financial
Instruments, while other contracts are accounted as derivatives measured through profit or loss.
			

Details of Forward Foreign Currency Contracts outstanding at the end of reporting period
Outstanding Contracts

Rupees crores

2023

2022

Notional Carrying amount of hedging
value (#)
instrument included in
Other Financial Assets/
(Liabilities)

Notional Carrying amount of hedging
value (#)
instrument included in
Other Financial Assets/
(Liabilities)

Cash Flow Hedges
Buy currency
Maturing in 1+ years
—

JPY/INR ...................................................

839.91

(16.92)

—

—

827.93

(19.11)

0.81

(0.09)

Maturing less than 1 year
—

USD/INR......................................................

Sell currency
Maturing less than 1 year
—

USD/INR ....................................................

318.77

(1.43)

583.54

7.93

—

BRL/INR ....................................................

—

—

7.97

(0.42)

—

ZAR/INR ....................................................

212.50

(0.09)

368.33

(20.98)

—

EUR/INR ....................................................

1,608.28

(54.48)

1,487.41

189.37

—

CAD/INR ....................................................

5.83

(0.01)

—

—

—

AUD /INR ..................................................

88.36

1.59

—

—

# Notional value of respective currency pair have been converted into presentation currency i.e. INR using year end closing exchange rate

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

363

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(a)
		

Market Risk Management (contd.)
(ii)

The movements in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve for instruments designated in a cash flow hedge are as follows:
Particulars

2023

Rupees crores

2022

Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges

Interest
Rate Risk
hedges

Total

Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges

Interest
Rate Risk
hedges

Total

Balance at the beginning of the year.................

(37.25)

—

(37.25)

(97.25)

(3.51)

(100.76)

(Gains)/Losses transferred to Profit or Loss on
occurrence of the forecast transaction....................

6.26

—

6.26

(27.57)

—

(27.57)

Change in Fair Value of Effective Portion of
cash flow hedges................................................................

1.66

(13.42)

(11.76)

38.70

3.69

42.39

Deferred Tax on the above.........................................

(5.97)

3.38

(2.59)

(1.35)

(0.18)

(1.53)

Balance at the end of the year...............................

(35.30)

(10.04)

(45.34)

(87.47)

—

(87.47)

Add: Share of associate /joint Venture.................

(67.67)

—

(67.67)

53.60

—

53.60

Deferred Tax on share of associates /joint
ventures....................................................................................

0.74

—

0.74

(0.08)

—

(0.08)

Add /(Less): Non controlling interest......................

8.22

—

8.22

(1.93)

—

(1.93)

Other comprehensive income reclassified to
profit or loss...........................................................................

—

—

—

(1.37)

—

(1.37)

Less: Deconsolidation of subsidiary.......................

(0.44)

—

(0.44)

—

—

—

Total............................................................................................

(94.45)

(10.04)

(104.49)

(37.25)

—

(37.25)

(94.45)

(10.04)

(104.49)

(37.25)

—

(37.25)

Of the above:
Balance relating to continuing hedges...............
(b)

Credit Risk Management

		Credit Risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group usually
deals with creditworthy counterparties and obtain sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from
defaults. The exposure is continuously monitored.
		(i)

Financial Guarantees

			
In addition, the Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to financial guarantees given to banks. The Group’s maximum exposure in this respect
is the maximum amount the Group could have to pay if the guarantee is called on. The accounting of financial guarantees is as explained in
Note 2(k). The amount recognised in Consolidated Balance Sheet as liabilities is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

		(ii)

2023

2022

Maximum exposure.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

553.66

564.23

Amount recognised as liability ...........................................................................................................................................................................

15.86

20.50

Trade Receivables

			The Group applies the simplified approach to providing for expected credit losses prescribed by Ind AS 109, which permits the use of the
lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables. The Group has computed expected credit losses based on a provision matrix which
uses historical credit loss experience of the Group. Forward-looking information (including macroeconomic information) has been incorporated
into the determination of expected credit losses.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

364

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b)

Credit Risk Management (contd.)

			

Reconciliation of loss allowance for Trade Receivables:

			

Other than related to hospitality segment
Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Balance as at beginning of the year.........................................................................................................................................................

398.87

405.43

Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................

92.63

74.32

Amounts written off during the year.............................................................................................................................................................

(68.63)

(30.46)

Impairment losses reversed/written back....................................................................................................................................................

(42.23)

(40.73)

Foreign exchange translation difference......................................................................................................................................................

(1.79)

(4.01)

On account of deconsolidation / disposal of subsidiaries...................................................................................................................

(31.19)

(5.68)

Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................

347.66

398.87

			Related to hospitality segment

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023

2022

Balance as at beginning of the year.........................................................................................................................................................

10.58

9.01

Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................

1.07

1.57

Amounts written off during the year.............................................................................................................................................................

(0.22)

—

Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................

11.43

10.58

			In respect of other financial assets, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each
class of financial assets.
		

(iii) Credit risk related to financial services business

			Financial services business has a comprehensive framework for monitoring credit quality of its Retail and other loans based on days past due
monitoring. Repayment by individual customers and portfolio is tracked regularly and required steps for recovery is taken through follow ups
and legal recourse.
			

The following tables set out information about credit quality of loan assets measured at amortised cost:

			Retail Loans

Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

71,776.28

49,172.63

5,294.47

4,727.01
11,243.51

Gross carrying value of Retail and SME loan assets
Neither Past due nor impaired............................................................................................................................................................................
Past due but not impaired
30 days past due..............................................................................................................................................................................................
31-90 days past due......................................................................................................................................................................................

5,999.23

Impaired (more than 90 days)..............................................................................................................................................................................

4,493.92

5,788.62

Total Gross carrying value as at reporting date ..........................................................................................................................

87,563.90

70,931.77

			Trade Advances

Particulars

Rupees crores
2023

2022

Gross carrying amount of trade advances
Less than 60 days past due.................................................................................................................................................................................

2,480.06

1,682.21

61-90 days past due.................................................................................................................................................................................................

53.43

64.55

Impaired (more than 90 days).............................................................................................................................................................................

6.93

60.66

Total Gross carrying value as at reporting date .........................................................................................................................

2,540.42

1,807.42

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

365

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b)

Credit Risk Management (contd.)

		
Inputs considered in the ECL model
		
In assessing the impairment of loans assets under Expected Credit Loss (ECL) Model, the loan assets have been segmented into three stages. The
three stages reflect the general pattern of credit deterioration of a financial instrument. The differences in accounting between stages, relate to
the recognition of expected credit losses and the calculation and presentation of interest revenue.
		The financial services business categorises loan assets into stages based on the days past due status:
			— Stage 1: 0-30 days past due
			— Stage 2: 31-90 days past due
			— Stage 3: More than 90 days
		RBI COVID-19 Resolution Framework
		During the year ended 31st March, 2021 and year ended 31st March, 2022, the financial services business had implemented resolution plans in
order to provide relief to borrowers adversely impacted due to onslaught of multiple waves /variants of COVID-19 Pandemic under the resolution
framework 1.0 vide circular no. RBI/2020-21/16 DOR.No.BP.BC/3/21.04.048/2020-21 dated 6th August, 2020 for personal loan customers and
resolution framework 2.0 vide circular No. RBI/2021-22/32 DOR.STR.REC.12/21.04.048/2021-22 dated 5th May, 2021. The loan modifications
executed under both these schemes have not been classified as renegotiated as they are as a result of market-wide customer relief programme
and not borrower-specific. The financial services business continues to monitor the recoverability of loans granted in accordance with these circulars
and is continue to carry adequate provisioning based on the repayment behaviour on these loan accounts. Since the COVID-19 pandemic has been
brought under control through development of vaccines, announcement of various health improvement and relief measures by respective Govt.
authorities, and economies have returned to normalcy, the Group had witnessed significant improvement in business/financial performance over the
period during second half of previous year as well as current year.
		Impact of COVID-19
		The outbreak of COVID-19 led to nationwide lockdown from March 2020, which gradually phased out over the next few months basis the local level
spread of the pandemic. The nation was impacted by the second wave of the pandemic in the first half of the fiscal year 2022 which again slowed
down the economic activities to a limited extent. Despite the successful roll out of vaccines around the world, a varying degree of uncertainty
remained through out the year ended 31st March, 2022. This was caused by new variants of COVID-19, varying vaccine effectiveness and the need
for reimposing of government - imposed restrictions. This uncertainty is reflected in the financial services business assessment of impairment
loss allowance on its loans which are subject to a number of management judgements and estimates. In relation to COVID-19, judgements and
assumptions include the extent and duration of the pandemic, the changes in the macro economic outlook and its associated impact on the
impairment calculations.
		Assumptions considered in the ECL model
		

The financial services business has made the following assumptions in the ECL Model:

		

– 	“Loss given default” (LGD) is common for all three Stages and is based on loss in past portfolio. Actual cash flows are discounted at loan EIR
rate for arriving loss rate.

		

– 	“Probability of Default” (PD) is applied on Stage 1 and Stage 2 on portfolio basis and for Stage 3 PD at 100%. This is calculated as an average
of the last 60 months yearly movement of default rates and future adjustment for macro economic factor.

		Estimation Technique
		

The financial services business has applied the following estimation technique in its ECL model:

		“Probability of Default” (PD) is applied on Stage 1 and Stage 2 on portfolio basis and for Stage 3 PD at 100%. This is calculated as an average of
the last 60 months yearly movement of default rates and future adjustment for macro economic factor such as agriculture and change in GDP are
considered most relevant in determining the PD. The Group assigns probability to these factors in order to determine the impact of such factors
on PD.
		

–	Loss given default is calculated based on discounted actual cash flow on past portfolio in default along with reversals.

			The methodologies and assumptions applied in the impairment loss allowance calculations have primarily remained unchanged from those
applied while preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31st March, 2022. The financial services business has been updating the
ECL model with the latest set of data on reasonable periodic intervals for the year ended 31st March, 2023, to capture the significant changes
in economic and market drivers and changes in risk profile of customer credit exposures. Output of ECL model refresh is also factored in
computation of provisions.
			Forward Looking Information
			In calculating the expected credit loss rates, the financial services business considers historical loss rates on portfolio over a period which
covers most external factors like drought, government and policy changes etc and these historical PDs are converted into forward looking
PDs considering the agricultural and GDP growth estimates.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

366

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b)

Credit Risk Management (contd.)
Assessment of significant increase in credit risk

		When determining whether the risk of default has increased significantly since initial recognition, the financial services business considers both
quantitative and qualitative information and analysis based on the business’s historical experience, including forward-looking information. The
financial services business considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost and effort. The
financial services business’s accounting policy is not to use the practical expedient that the financial assets with ‘low’ credit risk at the reporting
date are deemed not to have had a significant increase in credit risk. As a result the financial services business monitors all financial assets and
loan commitments that are subject to impairment for significant increase in credit risk.
		Definition of default
		The financial services business considers a financial asset to be in “default” and therefore Stage 3 (credit impaired) for ECL calculations when the
borrower becomes 90 days past due on its contractual payments except for personal loans, where the Group has an early recognition norm of
classification in to stage 3 on the basis of overdue more than 30 days past due.
		Policy for write off of Loan Assets
		The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off when there is no realistic prospect of further recovery. This is generally the case when
the financial services business determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to
repay the amounts subject to the write- off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities under the
recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
		Impairment loss

		

The expected credit loss allowance provision is determined as follows:
Rupees crores
Performing Underperforming Impaired loans
Loans - loans - 'lifetime - 'lifetime ECL
12 month ECL
ECL not credit credit impaired'
impaired'

Particulars

Total

Gross Balance as at 31st March, 2023 ................................................................

77,070.75

5,999.23

4,493.92

87,563.90

Expected credit loss rate ....................................................................................................

0.78%

10.39%

53.54%

Carrying amount as at 31 March, 2023 (net of impairment
provision)...........................................................................................................................................

76,471.20

5,375.67

2,087.77

83,934.64

Gross Balance as at 31 March, 2022 ................................................................

53,899.64

11,243.51

5,788.62

70,931.77

Expected credit loss rate ....................................................................................................

0.99%

12.61%

52.86%

Carrying amount as at 31st March, 2022 (net of impairment
provision) .........................................................................................................................................

53,367.06

9,826.13

2,728.94

st

st

65,922.13

		Level of Assessment - Aggregation Criteria
		The financial services business recognises the expected credit losses on a collective basis that takes into account comprehensive credit risk

information and considers the economic and risk characteristics, pricing range and sector concentration.

		Reconciliation of loss allowance provision for Retail and SME loans

Particulars

Balance as at 1st April, 2021............................................................................................
— Transferred to/from 12 months ECL..........................................................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL not credit impaired....................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL credit impaired..............................................
Business combination during the year............................................................................
Loans that have been derecognised during the year...........................................
New loans originated during the year.............................................................................
Write-offs..............................................................................................................................................
Net remeasurement of loss allowance...........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, 2022.....................................................................................

Rupees crores

12-month ECL Lifetime ECL not
credit impaired
477.57
376.09
10.58
(3.97)
1.45
(72.34)
237.59
(0.04)
(494.35)
532.58

1059.72
(138.74)
103.03
(121.27)
0.83
(348.92)
496.51
(5.76)
371.98
1,417.38

Lifetime
ECL credit
impaired

Total

3,560.52
(237.35)
(113.61)
125.24
1.99
(861.82)
292.57
(942.02)
1,234.16
3,059.68

5,097.81
—
—
—
4.27
(1,283.08)
1,026.67
(947.82)
1,111.79
5,009.64

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

367

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b)

Credit Risk Management (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars

Balance as at 1st April, 2022............................................................................................
— Transferred to/from 12 months ECL..........................................................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL not credit impaired....................................
— Transferred to/from lifetime ECL credit impaired..............................................
Loans that have been derecognised during the year...........................................
New loans originated during the year.............................................................................
Write-offs..............................................................................................................................................
Net remeasurement of loss allowance...........................................................................
Balance as at 31st March, 2023.....................................................................................

12-month ECL Lifetime ECL not
credit impaired
532.58
403.74
37.44
1.00
(74.86)
352.65
(0.09)
(652.91)
599.55

1,417.38
(279.62)
(18.32)
(147.70)
(304.78)
72.35
(4.01)
(111.74)
623.56

Lifetime
ECL credit
impaired

Total

3,059.68
(124.12)
(19.12)
146.70
(983.93)
137.55
(853.32)
1,042.71
2,406.15

5,009.64
—
—
—
(1,363.57)
562.55
(857.42)
278.06
3,629.26

		Trade advances

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023

2022

Loss allowance provision.........................................................................................................................................................................................................

20.03

71.73

		Impairment loss on financial services receivable for the year ended 31st March, 2023 recognised in profit or loss of Rs. 1,203.79 crores
(2022: Rs. 2,725.50 crores) includes bad debts and write offs of Rs. 2,635.73 crores (2022: Rs. 2,813.65 crores), reversal of provision for expected
credit loss of Rs. 1,432.08 crores (2022: provision of Rs. 85.76 crores) and provision for loan commitments of Rs. 0.14 crores (2022: provision
reversal of Rs. 2.39 crores).
		‘12 months ECL’ and ‘lifetime ECL not credit impaired’ are collectively assessed. ‘Lifetime ECL credit impaired’ are individually assessed.
		
Loan which are written off continue to be subject of enforcement activity.
		
Significant changes in the gross carrying value that contributed to change in loss allowance
		The financial services business mostly provides loans to retail individual customers in Rural and Semi urban area which are of small ticket size.
Change in any single customer repayment will not impact significantly to provisioning. All customers are being monitored based on past due status
of outstanding loan and corrective actions are taken accordingly to limit the financial services businesses risk.
		Concentration of Credit Risk
		Financial services business’s loan portfolio is predominantly to finance retail automobile and allied equipment loans, housing loans and other
business loans. The financial services business manages concentration of risk primarily by geographical region in India. The following table shows
the geographical concentrations of financial loans as at year end:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

2022

90,104.32

72,739.19

North .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
East .....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
West ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
South .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

26,094.99
18,071.95
26,391.41
19,545.97

17,388.45
16,387.77
22,547.51
16,415.46

Total Loans as at reporting year .............................................................................................................................................................................

90,104.32

72,739.19

Carrying Value .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Concentration by Geographical region in India:

		Maximum Exposure to credit Risk
		The maximum exposure to credit risk of loans is their carrying amount. The maximum exposure is before considering the effect of mitigation
through collateral.
		

Narrative Description of Collateral

		The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the financial services business upon extension of credit, is based on management’s credit
evaluation of the counterparty. Collateral primarily include vehicles and residential units purchased by retail loan customers.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

368

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(b)

		

Credit Risk Management (contd.)
Quantitative Information of Collateral - Credit Impaired assets

		(Collateral Coverage - Value of collateral available to mitigate the credit exposure)

Rupees crores

Loan To Value (LTV) Range

(c)

Gross Value of loans in stage 3
2023

2022

Upto 50% coverage...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

392.78

498.52

51 - 70% coverage.............................................................................................................................................................................................................

413.39

624.32

71 - 100% coverage.........................................................................................................................................................................................................

387.39

644.08

Above 100% coverage.....................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,300.36

4,021.70

4,493.92

5,788.62

Liquidity risk management
(i)

Maturity profile of non-derivative financial liabilities

			The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can
be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Rupees crores
Particulars

Less than
1 Year

1-3 Years

3 Years to
5 Years

5 years
and above

As at 31st March, 2023
Short term borrowings - Principal .............................................................................

33,739.62

—

—

—

Short term borrowings - Interest ...............................................................................

4,509.16

—

—

—

Long term borrowings - Principal.................................................................................

—

35,648.11

10,991.36

8,583.26

Long term borrowings - Interest...................................................................................

1,190.45

6,472.00

2,504.99

4,267.28

Trade payables .........................................................................................................................

23,835.66

0.04

—

—

Financial Guarantees ...........................................................................................................

553.66

—

—

—

Lease Liabilities..........................................................................................................................

709.77

1,092.34

749.96

1,735.33

Other Financial Liabilities...................................................................................................

2,215.44

287.28

97.53

129.36

Total..................................................................................................................................................

66,753.76

43,499.77

14,343.84

14,715.23

As at 31 March, 2022
st

Short term borrowings - Principal .............................................................................

26,042.12

—

—

—

Short term borrowings - Interest ...............................................................................

2,534.50

—

—

—

Long term borrowings - Principal ...............................................................................

—

31,785.68

8,478.03

8,457.00

Long term borrowings - Interest .................................................................................

1,929.04

5,034.55

2,254.76

5,014.52

Trade payables............................................................................................................................

19,036.55

1.55

—

—

Financial Guarantees ...........................................................................................................

564.23

—

—

—

Lease Liabilities..........................................................................................................................

532.41

929.34

561.35

1,554.27

Other Financial Liabilities...................................................................................................

2,408.86

284.72

129.77

124.00

Total..................................................................................................................................................

53,047.71

38,035.84

11,423.91

15,149.79

			The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group could be forced to settle under the
arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations at
the end of the reporting period, the Group considers that it is more likely than not that such an amount will not be payable under the
arrangement.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

369

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(c)

Liquidity risk management (contd.)
(ii)

Maturity profile of derivative financial liabilities

			The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments.
Particulars

Rupees crores

Less than
1 Year

1-3 Years

3 Years to
5 Years

Interest rate & currency swaps.................................................................................................................................

50.09

125.44

—

Foreign exchange forward contracts....................................................................................................................

62.94

20.65

—

Commodity futures............................................................................................................................................................

29.19

—

—

Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interests...............................................................................

206.39

—

92.80

348.61

146.09

92.80

Interest rate & currency swaps...............................................................................................................................

2.67

48.93

102.62

Foreign exchange forward contracts..................................................................................................................

91.47

—

—

Commodity futures..........................................................................................................................................................

0.63

—

—

Derivatives on interest over joint ventures....................................................................................................

91.75

—

—

Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interests.............................................................................

277.99

—

92.87

464.51

48.93

195.49

As at 31st March, 2023

As at 31st March, 2022

(d)

Sensitivity Analysis

		(i)

Foreign Currency Sensitivity

			The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in major exchange rates, with all other variables held
constant.
Rupees crores
Effect on
Profit Before
Tax

Effect on
pre-tax
equity

8.38

(16.22)

+10%

11.47

—

+10%

25.24

—

+10%

38.53

(45.58)

JPY/USD

+10%

20.31

—

INR/EUR

+10%

4.29

—

Particulars

Currency Change in rate

Year ended 31st March, 2023.......................................................................................

INR/USD

+10%

JPY/USD
INR/EUR
INR/USD

Year ended 31st March, 2022............................................................................................

			The sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because the exposure at the end of the reporting period does
not reflect the exposure during the year.
		(ii)

Interest Rate sensitivity

			The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on exposure to interest rate for both derivative and non-derivative instruments
at the end of reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the
reporting period was outstanding for the whole year.
			The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings
affected, after the impact of hedge accounting. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the
impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars

Year ended 31st March, 2023...................................................................................
Year ended 31st March, 2022........................................................................................

Currency

Increase/
decrease in
basis points

Effect on
profit before
tax

Effect on
pre-tax
equity

INR

+25 bps

(63.71)

—

EUR

+25 bps

(1.63)

—

INR

+25 bps

(43.91)

—

EUR

+25 bps

(1.67)

—

(i)

Quoted bid price in
active market

(370.86) Level 3

9,066.42 Level 1

219.44 Level 1

0.24 Level 1

86.70 Level 3

19.93 Level 3

(299.19)

8,698.47

206.58

172.20

31.28

77.71

Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL

Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTOCI

Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTPL

Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTOCI

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL

Financial
Liabilities

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

Financial
Assets

4)	Gross obligation
to acquire noncontrolling interest

5)	Investment in Mutual
Funds and Alternate
Investment Fund

6)	Investment in equity
instruments -Quoted

7)	Investment in
equity instrumentsUnquoted

Quoted bid price in
active market

69.68 Level 3

28.20

Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL

Financial
Assets /
(Liabilities)

3)	Derivatives on
interest over
Subsidiaries,
associates and joint
ventures

Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow

Discounted Cash
Flow /Market Multiple
approach

Net asset value

Comparable Companies
Method /Discounted
Cash-flow /Price of
recent transactions /
Comparable Companies
quoted multiples

Comparable Companies
Method /Discounted
Cash-flow /Price of
recent transactions /
Comparable Companies
quoted multiples

Black Scholes valuation
model

(119.56) Level 2

(144.84)

Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL

Financial
Assets /
(Liabilities)

2)	Currency options

Discounted Cash Flow
and Interest rate

152.46 Level 2

Valuation technique(s)

(106.94)

2023

Fair value
2022 hierarchy

Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL /FVTOCI

Fair Value
Category

Financial
1)	Foreign currency
forwards, Interest rate Assets /
(Liabilities)
swaps & commodity
derivatives

Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities

Financial Instruments regularly measured using fair value - recurring items

Fair Value Disclosures

Financial assets/
financial liabilities

		

(e)

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)

Rupees crores

—

—

Increase or decrease in key
assumptions, multiples will
result in increase or decrease
in valuation.
Terminal growth
rate, weighted
average cost of
capital.
Market multiples
used for
benchmarking.
For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The
discounted cash flow method used to capture the
present value of the expected future economic
benefits to be derived from the ownership of
these investees. The key inputs includes, long term
revenue growth rates, long term pre tax operating
profit margin, WACC, Discount for lack market for
respective equity instrument
For Market Multiple approach - In this approach fair
value is derived based on market multiples like PE
multiple, Enterprise value (EV) multiple, Revenue
Multiple etc.

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Any change (increase /
decrease) in the discount
factor, financial projections etc.
would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of
gross obligation to acquire noncontrolling interest
Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections

For Comparable Companies Method /Comparable
Companies Quoted Multiples - compare the price
for which comparable companies are traded on the
capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of balance sheet,
statement of profit and loss account along with
underlying assumptions.
—

Any change (increase /
decrease) in the discount
factor, financial projections etc.
would entail corresponding
change in the valuation of
derivatives on interest in
subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures.
Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections

For Comparable Companies Method /Comparable
Companies Quoted Multiples - compare the price
for which comparable companies are traded on the
capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of balance sheet,
statement of profit and loss account along with
underlying assumptions.

—

—

Significant
Relationship of unobservable
unobservable
inputs to fair value and
input(s) for level 3 sensitivity
hierarchy

Strike rate, spot rate, time to maturity, volatility and —
risk free interest rate.

Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange
rates at the end of the reporting period) and
contract forward rates, discounted at a rate that
reflects the credit risk of various counter parties.

Key inputs

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

370

(i)

Financial
Liabilities

Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL

— Level 3

Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow/
Market Multiple
approach

—

—

Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections

—

—

For Market Multiple approach - In this approach
fair value is derived based on market multiples like
Revenue multiple, etc..

—

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

Market multiples
used for
benchmarking.

Increase or decrease in key
assumptions, multiples will
result in increase or decrease
in valuation.

Interest rates to
discount future
cash flow, financial
projections

For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The
discounted cash flow method used to capture the
present value of the expected future economic
benefits to be derived from the ownership of
these investees. The key inputs includes, long term
revenue growth rates, balance sheets, statement of
profit and loss along with underlying assumptions.

For Discounted Cash Flow approach The discounted cash flow method used to capture
the present value of the expected future economic
benefits to be derived from the ownership of
these investees. The key inputs includes, long term
revenue growth rates, balance sheets, statement of
profit and loss along with underlying assumptions.

—

—

—

—

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

11)	Convertible
Preference shares

Market price

Increase or decrease in
multiple will result in increase
or decrease in valuation

—

—

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

Market price

—

—

—

—

Significant
Relationship of unobservable
unobservable
inputs to fair value and
input(s) for level 3 sensitivity
hierarchy

Key inputs

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow

Quoted market price

Quoted market price

Quoted market price

Valuation technique(s)

BOARD’S
REPORT

(400.00)

— Level 1

2,067.14

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL

Financial
Assets

852.20 Level 1

2,316.59

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI

70.13 Level 3

68.99

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL

Financial
Assets

— Level 1

100.53

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL

10)	Investment in Other
financial instruments
-CP, CD

293.13 Level 1

Financial
Assets

9)	Investment in
debt instruments Debentures/Bonds/
Preference shares,
etc

377.87

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI

Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI

Fair value
2022 hierarchy

4,490.95 Level 1

2023

4,896.57

Fair Value

Rupees crores

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

Financial
8)	Investment in
Assets
debt instruments Government Securities

Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities

Financial Instruments regularly measured using fair value - recurring items (contd.)

Fair Value Disclosures (contd.)

Financial assets/
financial liabilities

		

(e)

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)

371
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

372

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(e)
		

Fair Value Disclosures (contd.)
(i)

Financial Instruments regularly measured using fair value - recurring items (contd.)

			Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements of financial instruments measured at fair value
Rupees crores
Unquoted
Equity
investment

Investment in
debentures/
bonds etc

Derivatives on
interest over
Subsidiaries and
joint ventures
(Net)

Gross obligation
to acquire
non-controlling
interest

106.63

70.13

69.68

(370.86)

a)	in profit/(loss)..........................................................................................

(623.18)

(11.56)

(32.26)

59.41

b)	in other comprehensive income.................................................

(13.93)

—

—

—

Purchase during the year............................................................................

657.71

Disposal during the year..............................................................................

(45.00)

—

—

12.18

Exercise of put option...................................................................................

—

—

3.77

—

Adjustment for share of losses of joint ventures......................

—

10.42

—

—

Change in relationship during the year.............................................

56.96

—

—

—

Reclassified as held for sale......................................................................

—

—

(12.99)

—

Exchange differences

(30.20)

—

—

0.08

Closing balance................................................................................................

108.99

68.99

28.20

(299.19)

144.38

93.00

78.39

(507.96)

Particulars

Year Ended 31st March, 2023
Opening balance.............................................................................................
Total gains or losses recognised:

Year Ended 31st March, 2022
Opening balance.............................................................................................
Total gains or losses recognised:
a)

in profit/(loss)..........................................................................................

4.28

(12.41)

(7.90)

54.40

b)

in other comprehensive income.................................................

(48.99)

—

—

—

Purchase during the year .........................................................................

9.30

—

—

—

Disposal /conversion into equity during the year......................

(3.00)

(14.83)

—

—

Exercise of put option .................................................................................

—

—

(0.81)

75.78

Adjustment for share of losses of joint ventures......................

—

4.37

—

—

0.66

—

—

6.92

106.63

70.13

69.68

(370.86)

Exchange differences
Closing balance................................................................................................

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

373

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

36. Financial Instruments (contd.)
(e)

Fair Value Disclosures (contd.)

			

Equity Investments designated at FVTOCI

Rupees crores

Particulars

2023

2022

237.86

306.14

Investment in quoted and unquoted equity instruments:
Fair value of investments........................................................................................................................................................................................
		

(ii)

Financial Instruments measured at amortised cost
Rupees crores
Particulars

Carrying Value

Fair value

Fair value
Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

As at 31 March, 2023
st

Financial assets
a) Investments

1,877.92

1,887.45

1,309.97

577.48

—

b) Trade Receivables.................................................

7,310.62

7,310.62

—

7,310.62

—

c) Financial Services Receivable.......................

86,455.03

85,981.05

—

—

85,981.05

d) Security Deposit.....................................................

313.64

313.64

—

313.64

—

e) Other financial assets including loans

3,943.91

3,942.72

—

3,940.83

1.89

f) 	Fixed Deposit including margin
accounts.....................................................................

2,001.52

2,001.52

—

2,001.52

—

Total.............................................................................

1,01,902.64

1,01,437.00

1,309.97

14,144.09

85,982.94

55,027.39

56,175.25

18,652.51

37,522.74

—

Financial liabilities
a) Non-Current Borrowings..................................
b) Lease liabilities........................................................

3,479.84

3,479.84

—

3,479.84

—

c) Trade Payable..........................................................

23,835.70

23,835.70

—

23,835.70

—

d) Current Borrowings..............................................

33,739.62

33,739.62

6,523.17

27,216.45

—

e) Other Financial Liabilities................................

4,823.49

4,823.49

—

4,820.08

3.41

Total.............................................................................

1,20,906.04

1,22,053.90

25,175.69

96,874.81

3.41

As at 31st March, 2022
Financial assets
a) Investments

1,811.59

1,865.25

1,391.80

473.45

—

b) Trade Receivables.................................................

6,683.38

6,683.38

—

6,683.38

—

c) Financial Services Receivable.......................

67,657.82

67,997.01

—

—

67,997.01

d) Security Deposit.....................................................

279.14

279.14

—

279.14

—

e) Other financial assets including loans...

3,290.91

3,291.89

—

3,096.18

195.71

f) 	Fixed Deposit including margin
accounts......................................................................

707.43

707.43

—

707.43

—

Total.............................................................................

80,430.27

80,824.10

1,391.80

11,239.58

68,192.72

48,625.06

52,356.74

18,575.14

33,781.60

—

Financial liabilities
a) Non-Current Borrowings..................................
b) Lease liabilities........................................................

2,938.03

2,938.03

—

2,938.03

—

c) Trade Payable..........................................................

19,038.10

19,038.10

—

19,038.10

—

d) Current Borrowings..............................................

26,042.12

26,042.12

5,599.78

20,442.34

—

e) Other Financial Liabilities................................

5,198.05

5,198.05

—

4,694.82

503.23

Total.............................................................................

1,01,841.36

1,05,573.04

24,174.92

80,894.89

503.23

There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

374

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

37. Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership
(a)
		

Acquisition of Subsidiaries /Business
(i)

Swaraj Engines Limited

			On 27th September, 2022, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional 17.41% of voting shares of Swaraj Engines Limited
(SEL), a manufacturer of diesel engines and hi-tech engine components for fitments in tractors, based in India. Consequent to this investment,
the shareholding and voting rights of the Company in SEL increased from 34.72% to 52.13% and the status of SEL changed from an associate
to a subsidiary effective 28th September, 2022. The acquisition was made with the objective of strengthening Farm Equipment Sector.
			In the consolidated financial statements, the existing shares of SEL have been remeasured at acquisition date fair value in accordance with
Ind AS 103- ‘Business Combinations’. The gain on remeasurement of existing shares at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items in
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
			

Consequent to gaining of control, the results of SEL have been consolidated by the Group from 28th September, 2022 on a line-by-line basis.

			

The consideration transferred and goodwill on acquisition is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

Purchase consideration......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

296.01

Fair value of previously held interest......................................................................................................................................................................................................

673.11

Non Controlling interest....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

195.33
1,164.45

Less: Fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired.........................................................................................................................................................................

408.04

Goodwill on acquisition..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

756.40

			On acquisition date, the non-controlling interest has been measured at its proportionate share of identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. The
goodwill has been allocated to ‘Farm Equipment’ segment.
			The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the above business combination are as under:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Property, Plant and Equipment....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

		

(ii)

2023
253.94

Cash and cash equivalents..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

5.43

Other current and non-current assets/(liabilities), net................................................................................................................................................................

188.76

Deferred tax assets/(liabilities), net..........................................................................................................................................................................................................

(40.56)

Fair value of net asset/(liabilities) acquired...............................................................................................................................................................................

407.57

Sampo Rosenlew Oy

			On 21st July, 2022, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional 20.87% of voting shares of Sampo Rosenlew Oy (Sampo),
a combine harvester company based in Finland. Consequent to this investment, the shareholding and voting rights of the Company in Sampo
increased from 79.13% to 100% and the status of Sampo changed from a joint venture to a subsidiary effective 22nd July, 2022. The Company’s
scale in tractors and Sampo’s expertise in combine harvesters will allow to offer a broader product portfolio to address the needs of farmers
in various countries.
			In the consolidated financial statements, the pre-existing shares of Sampo have been remeasured at acquisition date fair value in accordance
with Ind AS 103- ‘Business Combinations’. The gain on remeasurement of existing shares at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items
in consolidated statement of profit & loss.
			

Consequent to gaining of control, the results of Sampo have been consolidated by the Group from 22nd July, 2022 on a line-by-line basis.

			

The consideration transferred and goodwill on acquisition is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

2023

Purchase consideration...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

36.51

Value of put option exercised....................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(7.29)

Fair value of previously held interest...................................................................................................................................................................................................

137.34
166.56

Less: Fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired......................................................................................................................................................................

(9.49)

Goodwill on acquisition...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................

176.05

			The goodwill has been allocated to ‘Farm Equipment’ segment.

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

375

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

37. Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership (contd.)
(a)

Acquisition of Subsidiaries /Business (contd.)

			The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the above business combination are as under:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Property, Plant and Equipment....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible Assets.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash and cash equivalents..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current and non-current assets/(liabilities), net................................................................................................................................................................
Borrowings..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Fair value of net asset/(liabilities) acquired...............................................................................................................................................................................
		

2023
59.08
16.02
30.00
4.28
48.59
167.47
(9.49)

(iii) Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited

			On 29th March, 2023, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional 8.41% of voting shares of Mahindra Aerospace Private
Limited (MAPL). MAPL is engaged in the business of inter alia, research, design, manufacture, operation, assembly, and maintenance of various
kinds of aircrafts and aircraft components and aerostructures, directly /through its subsidiaries. Consequent to this investment, the shareholding
and voting rights of the Company in MAPL increased from 91.59% to 100% and the status of MAPL changed from a joint venture to a
subsidiary effective 29th March, 2023.
			In the consolidated financial statements, the pre-existing shares of MAPL have been remeasured at acquisition date fair value in accordance with
Ind AS 103- ‘Business Combinations’. The gain on remeasurement of existing shares at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items in
consolidated statement of profit & loss.
			

Consequent to gaining of control, the results of MAPL have been consolidated by the Group from 29th March, 2023 on a line-by-line basis.

			

The consideration transferred and goodwill on acquisition is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Purchase consideration......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Fair value of previously held interest......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Less: Fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired.........................................................................................................................................................................
Goodwill on acquisition..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2023
31.47
342.64
374.11
201.54
172.57

			The goodwill has been allocated to ‘Others’ segment.
			

The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the above business combination are as under:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Property, Plant and Equipment....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible Assets.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash and cash equivalents..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current and non-current assets/(liabilities), net................................................................................................................................................................
Borrowings..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Fair value of net asset/(liabilities) acquired...............................................................................................................................................................................

		

2023
115.39
1.48
2.61
138.25
56.03
201.70

(iv) Acquisition of B2B Express business of Rivigo Services Private Limited

			During the year ended 31st March, 2023, MLL Express Services Private Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mahindra Logistics Limited, a
subsidiary of the Company, acquired the B2B express business of Rivigo Services Private Limited, as a going concern, on slump sale basis, for a
consideration of Rs. 218.51 crores (post adjustments as per the terms of the Business Transfer Agreement). A Goodwill of Rs. 174.41 crores
has been recognised in books pertaining to this acquisition.
		

(v)

M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited

			During the year, the Company has acquired 52.67% of the paid up capital of M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (MITRA) for a consideration
of Rs. 61.71 crores. MITRA is an Indian Company which manufactures and sells agricultural sprayers. Following the acquisition, the shareholding
of the Company in MITRA stands increased to 100% from the existing 47.33%. Consequently, the status of MITRA changed from joint venture
to a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. A Goodwill of Rs. 86.19 crores has been recognised in books pertaining to this acquisition.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

376

37. Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership (contd.)
(b)
		

Reduction in shareholding resulting in loss of control
(i)

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

			During the year, Mahindra Holdings Limited (MHL), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, divested 30% equity interest in Mahindra Susten
Private Limited (MSPL), as a result of which the shareholding and voting rights of MHL has reduced from 100% to 70%. Further, consequent to
the rights given to the investor, MSPL and its subsidiaries are accounted as joint ventures w.e.f. 23rd December, 2022. In the consolidated financial
statement, retained interest in MSPL has been remeasured at fair value in accordance with Ind AS 110-`Consolidated Financial Statements’. The
gain on equity interest sold and remeasurement of retained interest at fair value have been recognised as exceptional items in the consolidated
financial statement.
		

(ii)

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.

			During the year, Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. (MTWEH) a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered and executed an
agreement whereby the existing 100% shareholding and voting rights of MTWEH in Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (PMTC) stands reduced to 50%
in terms of shareholding and 19.99% in terms of voting rights. Consequently, PMTC and the subsidiaries of PMTC ceased to be subsidiaries of
MTWEH.
(c)
		

Partial disposal of investments in associates
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited

		During the year ended 31st March, 2023, Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) sold 3,12,22,444 shares of Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
(MCIE). Following this sale, the Company’s shareholding in MCIE has decreased from 11.44% to 3.20%.
(d)

Held for sale

		During the year, investment in Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private
Limited) has been classified as held for sale. The sale has been completed subsequent to 31st March, 2023 and before the financial statements have
been approved for issue by the Board.
38.	During the year ended 31st March, 2023, the Company formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) to undertake the
four-wheel passenger electric business and transferred certain existing assets to MEAL.
	Further, in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement
entered with British International Investment Plc (BII), wherein the Company and BII each agreed to invest Rs. 1925.00 crores in MEAL in tranches, both
the Company and BII have invested Rs. 400.00 crores each till 31st March, 2023. The investment by the Company is in Equity shares of MEAL whereas
investment by BII is in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MEAL.
	Unless agreed to in writing for an early conversion, each CCPS is compulsorily and automatically convertible into such number of equity shares as
determined as per a pre-determined formula at the conversion date, as per terms and conditions of the agreement (s) entered between the Company
and BII. Since the CCPS is convertible into variable number of equity shares of MEAL, it has been classified as financial liability at fair value through profit
or loss in the financial statements of MEAL and in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Further, in accordance with the shareholders’
agreement, the Company shall take best efforts to provide BII with a complete exit between 1st November, 2027 and 1st November, 2030 through certain
exit options (or a combination thereof), as may be determined by the Company in its sole discretion. In case exit has not been provided to BII by such time,
BII shall have the right upto 31st October, 2031 to require full exit to be provided by the Company or by its affiliates and/or a third party at the higher of
fair market value and the amount invested by the BII.
39. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest
(a)

Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
st
As at 31 March,
Operation
2023
2022

Name of the Subsidiary

Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited....................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited #............................................................................................................................................................

India

—

98.98%

NBS International Limited....................................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited...........................................................................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Europe s.r.l. ............................................................................................................................................................................................

Italy

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary) Limited........................................................................................................

South Africa

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra West Africa Limited (Liquidated w.e.f. 4 January, 2023).......................................................................................

Nigeria

—

100.00%

Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited......................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Automobili Pininfarina GmbH.............................................................................................................................................................................

Germany

100.00%

100.00%

Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc.............................................................................................................................................................

U.S.A.

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Automotive North America Inc..................................................................................................................................................

U.S.A.

100.00%

100.00%

th

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

377

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

39. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a)

Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation
2023
2022

Name of the Subsidiary

Mahindra Vehicle Sales and Service Inc.....................................................................................................................................................

U.S.A.

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra North American Technical Center, Inc...................................................................................................................................

U.S.A.

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited (Liquidated w.e.f. 14th March, 2023).....................................................................

Bangladesh

—

100.00%

Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (w.e.f. 25 October, 2022)..........................................................................................

India

100.00%

—

Gromax Agri Equipment Limited......................................................................................................................................................................

India

60.00%

60.00%

Trringo.com Limited..................................................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra USA Inc.......................................................................................................................................................................................................

U.S.A.

100.00%

100.00%

th

Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd $....................................................................................................................

Japan

66.67%

66.67%

Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd..................................................................................................................................

Japan

66.67%

66.67%

Ryono Factory Co., Ltd............................................................................................................................................................................................

Japan

66.67%

66.67%

Ryono Engineering Co., Ltd..................................................................................................................................................................................

Japan

66.67%

66.67%

Dia Computer Service Co., Ltd...........................................................................................................................................................................

Japan

66.67%

66.67%

Ryono Asset Management Co., Ltd.................................................................................................................................................................

Japan

66.67%

66.67%

Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L. (Under Liquidation).................................................................................................................................

Mexico

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda.................................................................................................................................................................

Brazil

100.00%

100.00%

Erkunt Traktor Sanayii Anonim Şirketi........................................................................................................................................................

Turkey

100.00%

100.00%

Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi............................................................................................................................................................................

Turkey

98.69%

98.69%

Sampo Rosenlew Oy (w.e.f. 22 July, 2022)^........................................................................................................................................

Finland

100.00%

—

Swaraj Engines Limited (w.e.f. 28th September, 2022) ^^..............................................................................................................

India

52.13%

—

th

M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (w.e.f. 17 March, 2023) ^.................................................................................

India

100.00%

—

Kota Farm Services Limited @..........................................................................................................................................................................

India

47.81%

47.81%

Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited......................................................................................................................................................................

India

98.79%

98.79%

Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited......................................................................................................................................................................

India

54.31%

54.40%

Mahindra HZPC Private Limited.......................................................................................................................................................................

India

59.22%

59.22%

Mahindra Fruits Private Limited.......................................................................................................................................................................

India

98.79%

98.79%

OFD Holding B.V. (upto 20th April, 2022) **.............................................................................................................................................

Netherlands

—

82.09%

Origin Direct Asia Ltd. (upto 20 April, 2022) **.................................................................................................................................

Hong Kong

—

49.25%

Origin Fruit Direct B.V. (upto 20th April, 2022) **................................................................................................................................

Netherlands

—

82.09%

th

Origin Fruit Services South America SpA (upto 20 April, 2022) **.....................................................................................

Chile

—

82.09%

Origin Direct Asia (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd. (upto 20th April, 2022) **............................................................................

China

—

82.09%

Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution Holding Company (Europe) B.V.
(Liquidated w.e.f. 28th February, 2023)........................................................................................................................................................

Netherlands

—

98.79%

Merakisan Private Limited (upto 7 September, 2022) **............................................................................................................

India

—

91.59%

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited........................................................................................................................................................

India

55.18%

50.60%

Fifth Gear Ventures Limited................................................................................................................................................................................

India

55.18%

50.60%

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited ESOP Trust............................................................................................................................

India

55.18%

50.60%

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited................................................................................................................................

India

52.24%

52.26%

Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited............................................................................................................................................................

India

41.79%

41.81%

Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited..................................................................................................................................................

India

51.73%

51.87%

Mahindra Finance CSR Foundation................................................................................................................................................................

India

52.24%

52.26%

nd

th

th

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

378

39. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a)

Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)

Name of the Subsidiary

Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation
2023
2022

MRHFL Employee Welfare Trust (ESOP)....................................................................................................................................................

India

51.73%

51.87%

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited ESOP Trust....................................................................................................

India

52.24%

52.26%

Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited........................................................................................................................................................................

Sri Lanka

30.40%

30.42%

Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited.....................................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Mahindra Infrastructure Developers Limited..........................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited............................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Knowledge Township Limited.............................................................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Mahindra Integrated Township Limited ##...............................................................................................................................................

India

—

37.98%

Mahindra Residential Developers Limited ##.........................................................................................................................................

India

—

37.98%

Industrial Township (Maharashtra) Limited..............................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Anthurium Developers Limited.........................................................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Mahindra Water Utilities Limited.....................................................................................................................................................................

India

50.77%

50.82%

Rathna Bhoomi Enterprises Private Limited...........................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Deep Mangal Developers Private Limited.................................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Moonshine Construction Private Limited..................................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited..................................................................................................................................................

India

51.28%

51.33%

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited.............................................................................................................................................

India

67.18%

67.47%

Mahindra Hotels and Residences India Limited....................................................................................................................................

India

67.18%

67.47%

Gables Promoters Private Limited.................................................................................................................................................................

India

67.18%

67.47%

Heritage Bird (M) Sdn. Bhd..................................................................................................................................................................................

Malaysia

67.18%

67.47%

Infinity Hospitality Group Company Limited............................................................................................................................................

Thailand

49.71%

49.92%

MH Boutique Hospitality Limited @..............................................................................................................................................................

Thailand

32.92%

33.06%

MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited..................................................................................................................................................................

Mauritius

67.18%

67.47%

Covington S.a.r.l...........................................................................................................................................................................................................

Luxembourg

67.18%

67.47%

HCR Management Oy ###..................................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Holiday Club Resorts Oy.......................................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

67.18%

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Himos Gardens ###..................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Vanha Ykköstii ###...................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Katinnurkka ###.........................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Tenetinlahti ###..........................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Mällösniemi ###..........................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta 1 ###...............................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta 2 ###...............................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Tiurunniemi ###..........................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt 1 #^...............................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt 1 (Formerly known as Supermarket Capri Oy)..............................................

Finland

67.18%

67.47%

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

379

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

39. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a)

Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation
2023
2022

Name of the Subsidiary

Kiinteistö Oy Kylpyläntorni 1 ###.................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts 2 ###..........................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts 3 ###..........................................................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Kiinteistö Oy Kuusamon Pulkkajärvi 1 ###............................................................................................................................................

Finland

—

67.47%

Ownership Services Sweden Ab.......................................................................................................................................................................

Sweden

67.18%

67.47%

Are Villa 3 AB................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Sweden

67.18%

67.47%

Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre..............................................................................................................................................................................

Sweden

67.18%

67.47%

Holiday Club Sport and Spahotels AB.........................................................................................................................................................

Sweden

67.18%

67.47%

Holiday Club Resorts Rus LLC..........................................................................................................................................................................

Russia

67.18%

67.47%

Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L.U..................................................................................................................................................

Spain

67.18%

67.47%

Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing S.L.U....................................................................................................................................

Spain

67.18%

67.47%

Holiday Club Canarias Resort Management S.L.U...............................................................................................................................

Spain

67.18%

67.47%

Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club SLU................................................................................................................................................

Spain

67.18%

67.47%

Arabian Dreams Hotel Apartments LLC @...............................................................................................................................................

U.A.E

32.92%

33.06%

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited ESOP Trust................................................................................................................

India

67.18%

67.47%

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts Harihareshwar Limited (w.e.f. 23 August, 2022)..........................................................

India

67.18%

—

Guestline Hospitality Management and Development Services Limited (w.e.f 2 December, 2022)............

India

66.10%

—

Mahindra Logistics Limited..................................................................................................................................................................................

India

58.09%

58.18%

Lords Freight (India) Private Limited............................................................................................................................................................

India

57.54%

57.63%

2 x 2 Logistics Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................................

India

31.95%

32.00%

MLL Express Services Private Limited (Formerly known as Meru Travel Solutions Private Limited)............

India

58.09%

100.00%

MLL Mobility Private Limited (Formerly known as Meru Mobility Tech Private Limited)........................................

India

58.09%

100.00%

V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................

India

58.09%

100.00%

V-Link Automotive Services Private Limited...........................................................................................................................................

India

58.09%

100.00%

V-Link Freight Services Private Limited (w.e.f 9 September, 2022)....................................................................................

India

58.09%

—

MLL Global Logistics Limited (w.e.f 6 December, 2022)..............................................................................................................

U.K.

58.09%

—

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l...................................................................................................................................

Luxembourg

100.00%

100.00%

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S. (upto 31 January, 2023) **................................................................................................................

France

—

100.00%

Peugeot Motocycles Deutschland GmbH (upto 31st January, 2023) **..............................................................................

Germany

—

100.00%

Peugeot Motocycles Italia S.p.A. (Under liquidation) (upto 31st January, 2023) **......................................................

Italy

—

100.00%

PMTC Engineering SPA (upto 31st January, 2023) **........................................................................................................................

Italy

—

100.00%

Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc. (Liquidated w.e.f 21st October, 2022)................................................................................

U.S.A.

—

100.00%

Bristlecone Limited...................................................................................................................................................................................................

Cayman
Islands

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone Consulting Limited.........................................................................................................................................................................

Canada

97.19%

97.06%

rd

nd

th

th

st

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

380

39. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a)

Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation
2023
2022

Name of the Subsidiary

Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.......................................................................................................................................................................

Malaysia

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone International AG..............................................................................................................................................................................

Switzerland

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone UK Limited...........................................................................................................................................................................................

U.K.

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone Inc..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

U.S.A.

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone Middle East DMCC..........................................................................................................................................................................

U.A.E.

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone India Limited.......................................................................................................................................................................................

India

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone GmbH......................................................................................................................................................................................................

Germany

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited............................................................................................................................................................

Singapore

97.19%

97.06%

Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica Limited.........................................................................................................................................

U.S.A.

97.19%

97.06%

Mahindra Susten Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^......................................................................................

India

—

100.00%

Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^..........................................................................

India

—

100.00%

Neo Solren Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^...................................................................................................

India

—

100.00%

Astra Solren Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^................................................................................................

India

—

100.00%

Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^.........................................................................................

India

—

100.00%

MSPL International DMCC (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^......................................................................................................

Dubai

—

100.00%

Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^......................................................

India

—

100.00%

Martial Solren Private Limited (upto 22 December, 2022) ^^^............................................................................................

India

—

100.00%

Mahindra Teqo Private Limited.........................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Solarize Private Limited.................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited (w.e.f. 29th August, 2022)....................................................................................

India

100.00%

—

Emergent Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 9th November, 2022)...................................................................................................

India

100.00%

—

Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra Intertrade Limited)..................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited......................................................................................................................................................

India

61.00%

61.00%

Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited.................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited...........................................................................................................................................................

India

75.50%

51.00%

Mahindra MiddleEast Electrical Steel Service Centre (FZC)........................................................................................................

U.A.E.

90.00%

90.00%

Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited...............................................................................................................................................

India

50.00%

50.00%

PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia.............................................................................................................................................................

Indonesia

99.98%

99.98%

Mahindra Defence Systems Limited..............................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring FZ-LLC.......................................................................................................................................

U.A.E.

88.00%

88.00%

Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordan, LLC....................................................................................................................................................

Jordan

88.00%

88.00%

Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited (w.e.f. 17 June, 2022) ^.................................................................

India

100.00%

—

Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (w.e.f 29 March, 2023) ^..............................................................................................

India

100.00%

—

Mahindra Aerostructures Pvt Ltd (w.e.f. 29 March 2023) ^.....................................................................................................

India

100.00%

—

Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (w.e.f. 29th March 2023) ^..........................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

—

nd

nd

nd

nd

nd

nd

nd

nd

th

th

th

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

381

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

39. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(a)

Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: (contd.)
Place of Proportion of ownership
interest *
Incorporation
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation
2023
2022

Name of the Subsidiary

Gipps Aero Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023) ^......................................................................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

—

Airvan Flight Services Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29 March, 2023) ^............................................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

—

GA8 Airvan Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023) ^.....................................................................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

—

GA200 Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29 March, 2023) ^...............................................................................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

—

Nomad TC Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29th March, 2023) ^.......................................................................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

—

Airvan 10 Pty Ltd (w.e.f 29 March, 2023) ^........................................................................................................................................

Australia

100.00%

—

Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited (upto 16th March, 2023) **......................................................................................

India

—

88.35%

Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited ESOP Trust (upto 16th March, 2023) **.........................................................

India

—

88.35%

Mahindra Namaste Limited (upto 16th March, 2023) **..................................................................................................................

India

—

88.35%

Mahindra Airways Limited.....................................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited....................................................................................................................................................

Mauritius

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Holdings Limited..................................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

th

th

th

Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited...................................................................................................

Mauritius

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Racing UK Limited..............................................................................................................................................................................

U.K.

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private Limited..............................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra eMarket Limited...................................................................................................................................................................................

India

83.47%

83.47%

Mahindra Construction Company Limited.................................................................................................................................................

India

65.27%

65.30%

Officemartindia.com Limited...............................................................................................................................................................................

India

50.00%

50.00%

Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited @.................................................................................................................................................

India

46.66%

46.66%

Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited........................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

87.39%

Mahindra Telecom Energy Management Services Limited............................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

New Democratic Electoral Trust @...............................................................................................................................................................

India

33.36%

33.37%

Sunrise Initiatives Trust.........................................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mumbai Mantra Media Limited..........................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Marine Private Limited....................................................................................................................................................................

India

81.58%

81.58%

Mahindra & Mahindra Benefit Trust..............................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust..................................................................................................................................................................

India

100.00%

100.00%

*

excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities /their holding companies but not allotted to employees.

	@	entities have been treated as subsidiaries even though the Group holds less than half of the voting power in these entities as it has unilateral control
over the investees due to other factors that give power like control over composition of board, management control etc.
	$	In addition to JPY750 million Common Stock (which represents 33.33% of the Common stock), the Company owns the entire JPY2250 million
“Class A” shares (shares with no voting rights); “Class A” shares have rights over dividend and liquidation on an equal basis with Common Stock.
	^
^^

During the year ended March 2023, the Controlling status was changed from joint venture to subsidiary.
During the year ended March 2023, the Controlling status was changed from associate to subsidiary.

^^^ During the year ended March 2023, the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to joint venture.
#

Entities have been merged with Mahindra and Mahindra Limited.

##

Entities have been merged with Mahindra World City Developers Limited, a joint venture of the company.

### Entities have been merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy, a subsidiary of the company.
#^

Entities have been merged with Supermarket Capri Oy, a subsidiary of the company.

**

Entity has been disposed off and ceased to be a Subsidiary.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

382

39. Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (contd.)
(b)

Details of Non-Wholly Owned Subsidiaries that have material Non Controlling Interest
Rupees crores

Sr.
No.

Name of the Subsidiary

Place of
Incorporation
and Place of
Operation

Proportion of Ownership
Interest and voting rights
held by non controlling
interests

Profit /(Loss) allocated
to non controlling
interest

Accumulated non
Controlling Interest

2023

2022

2023

2022

2023

2022

47.76%

47.74%

1,016.74

583.60

9,077.43

8,278.02

1

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited....................................................

2

Individually Immaterial
Non Controlling Interest..................................

76.24

92.09

1,638.89

1,424.60

Total..............................................................................

1,092.98

675.69

10,716.32

9,702.62

India

	Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited’s Principal Activity - Financing and leasing of automobiles, tractors, commercial vehicles, SMEs and
housing finance.
(c)	Summarised financial information in respect of each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests is set out
below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts based on their consolidated financial statements.
Rupees crores
Particulars

Mahindra & Mahindra
Financial Services
Limited-Consolidated
2023

2022

Current Assets...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

41,699.91

36,247.94

Non Current Assets...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

63,384.86

47,560.71

Current Liabilities....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

33,817.14

26,024.00

Non Current Liabilities.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

52,566.19

40,746.88

Equity Interest Attributable to the owners..........................................................................................................................................................................................

18,560.09

16,896.31

Non Controlling Interest.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

141.35

141.46

Revenue.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

12,832.40

11,400.51

Expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

10,761.20

10,250.17

Profit/(Loss) for the year...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

2,071.20

1,150.34

Profit/(Loss) attributable to the owners of the company.........................................................................................................................................................

2,072.40

1,136.87

Profit/(Loss) attributable to the Non-Controlling Interest.........................................................................................................................................................

(1.20)

13.47

Opening Cash & Cash Equivalents..............................................................................................................................................................................................................

765.32

808.53

Closing Cash & Cash Equivalents.................................................................................................................................................................................................................

586.53

765.32

Net Cash inflow/(outflow).................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

(178.79)

(43.21)

Dividends paid to non controlling interest............................................................................................................................................................................................

212.92

47.02

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

383

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

40. Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates
Interests in Joint Ventures:
The Group’s interests in jointly controlled entities of the Group are:
Proportion of ownership
Place of
interest
Incorporation and
Place of Operation
As at 31st March,

Name of the Entity

2023

2022

India

35.00%

35.00%

Carnot Technologies Private Limited #

India

73.00%

73.00%

Sampo Rosenlew Oy (upto 21st July, 2022) #^

Finland

—

79.13%

Sampo Algeria SpA (w.e.f. 22nd July, 2022)

Algeria

38.00%

—

M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited (upto 16th March, 2023) ^

India

—

49.00%

Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private Limited #

India

60.00%

60.00%

Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited #

India

60.00%

60.00%

Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited #

India

51.00%

51.00%

Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private Limited #

India

51.00%

51.00%

Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited #

India

74.00%

74.00%

Mahindra World City Developers Limited #

India

89.00%

89.00%

Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited #

India

60.00%

60.00%

Mahindra Homes Private Limited #

India

73.38%

72.51%

Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited

India

50.00%

50.00%

Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited **

India

100.00%

100.00%

Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited #

India

51.00%

51.00%

Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari**

Japan

100.00%

100.00%

Tropiikin Rantasauna Oy

Finland

50.00%

50.00%

Transtech Logistics Private Limited

India

39.79%

39.79%

Jinan Qingqi Peugeot Motocycles Co Ltd. (upto 31st January, 2023)

China

—

50.00%

Classic Legends Private Limited #

India

60.00%

60.00%

Mahindra-BT Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited #

Mauritius

57.00%

57.00%

Marvel Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)#

India

—

51.00%

Mahindra Susten Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, 2022) ^^ #

India

70.00%

—

Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited (upto 16 June, 2022) #^

51.00%

Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited

India

—

Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special
Steel Private Limited)

India

22.81%

22.81%

Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (upto 28th March, 2023) #^

India

—

91.59%

Zoomcar Inc

U.S.A.

3.28%

16.83%

Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited

India

26.26%

26.28%

New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited

India

30.83%

30.83%

Aquasail Distribution Company Private Limited

India

17.65%

17.65%

th

#	Entities have been treated as Joint Ventures even though the Group holds more than half of the voting power in these entities as it does not have
unilateral control over the investee, primarily due to existence of agreements that give the substantive rights to other investors.
**	As per agreement with other shareholders, the economic interest of Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited and Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari
is 50%.
^

During the year ended March 2023, the Controlling status was changed from joint venture to subsidiary.

^^

During the year ended March 2023, the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to joint venture.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

384

40. Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates (contd.)
Interests in Associates:
The Group’s interests in associates are:
Proportion of ownership
Place of
interest
Incorporation and
Place of Operation
As at 31st March,

Name of the Entity

Tech Mahindra Limited
PF Holdings B.V.

2023

2022

India

28.21%

28.28%

Netherlands

40.00%

40.00%

Swaraj Engines Limited (upto 27 September, 2022) ^^

India

—

34.72%

Shiga Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.

Japan

22.40%

22.40%

Kagawa Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.

Japan

33.33%

33.33%

Okanetsu Industry Co., Ltd.

Japan

33.77%

33.77%

Kitaiwate Ryono Co., Ltd.

Japan

25.00%

25.00%

Aizu Ryono Co., Ltd.

Japan

21.25%

21.25%

Joban Ryono Co., Ltd.

Japan

20.00%

20.00%

FukuryoKiki Hanbai Co., Ltd.

Japan

20.00%

20.00%

Ibaraki Ryono Co., Ltd.

Japan

21.64%

21.64%

Kotobuki Noki Co, Ltd.

Japan

33.33%

33.33%

Honda Seisakusyo, Inc.

Japan

25.00%

25.00%

Yamaichi Honten Co., Ltd.

Japan

42.85%

42.85%

Resson Aerospace Corporation #

Canada

13.83%

11.65%

Kumsan Dokum Mazelmeri A.S.

Turkey

25.10%

25.10%

HDG-Asia Ltd (upto 20 April, 2022)

Netherlands

—

50.00%

Mahindra Finance USA LLC

U.S.A.

49.00%

49.00%

Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited # *

India

3.20%

11.44%

CIE Automotive S.A. #

Spain

7.83%

7.83%

India

46.15%

46.15%

India

26.00%

—

th

th

Mahindra Knowledge Park Mohali Limited
AMIP Industrial Parks Private Limited (w.e.f 10 October, 2022)
th

Kiinteistö Oy Seniori-Saimaa

Finland

31.15%

31.15%

Great Rocksport Private Limited (w.e.f. 16th April, 2022)

India

23.42%

—

ZipZap Logistics Private Limited (w.e.f 8th April, 2022)

India

36.00%

—

ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited

India

37.21%

37.21%

Brainbees Solutions Private Limited #

India

12.42%

12.42%

PSL Media & Communications Limited

India

40.00%

40.00%

The East India Company Group Limited BVI #

Singapore

18.62%

18.62%

Medwell Ventures Private Limited

India

31.45%

31.45%

	The financial statements of the Associates are drawn upto 31st March, 2023 other than for CIE Automotive S.A. and Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
where it is upto 31st December, 2022.
#	Entities have been treated as Associate even though the Group holds less than 20% of the voting power in these entities as it has influence over
the entity due to the board representation.
^^

During the year ended March 2023, the Controlling status was changed from associate to subsidiary.

*

Post 31st March, 2023, the Company has sold its entire shareholding in Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited

All of the above associates/Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in consolidated financial statements.

385

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

40. Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates (contd.)
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s material associate is set out below
Rupees crores
Particulars

Tech Mahindra Limited Consolidated
2023

2022

4,056.30

3,788.90

Other assets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 20,376.40

20,666.76

Total current assets.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 24,432.70

24,455.66

Total Non-current assets....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 21,720.56

20,415.09

Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

Current liabilities
Financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

9,167.40

8,875.54

Other Liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

5,384.00

4,859.70

Total current liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 14,551.40

13,735.24

Total Non-current liabilities..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

3,207.20

3,754.40

Non-controlling interest.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

470.20

495.40

Revenue from Operations..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 53,290.19

44,645.98

Interest Income.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

105.00

90.40

Depreciation and amortisation..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,956.70

1,520.40

Impairment of Goodwill and non-current assets..................................................................................................................................................................................

237.03

—

Interest Cost...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

325.60

162.60

Income tax expense..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,588.50

1,822.00

Profit /(Loss) for the year.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

4,856.96

5,630.08

Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year..............................................................................................................................................................................

314.80

231.20

Total Other Comprehensive Income for the year................................................................................................................................................................................

5,171.76

5,861.28

Tech Mahindra Limited’s Principal Activity - Information Technology (IT) and IT Enabled Services
	Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the associate recognised in the consolidated
financial statements:
Rupees crores
Particulars

Tech Mahindra Limited Consolidated
2023

2022

Closing Net assets..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 27,924.46

26,885.71

Group’s share in %....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

28.21%

28.28%

Group’s share (Rs)......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

7,877.49

7,603.28

Goodwill.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

540.45

540.83

Carrying amount.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................

8,417.94

8,144.11

Market Value.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 27,350.21

37,219.47

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

386

41. Related party disclosures
(a) Names of related parties where transactions have taken place during the year:
		(i) Associates:
Sr. No. Name of the entity
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
		(ii)

Tech Mahindra Limited
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
CIE Automotive, S.A.
Swaraj Engines Limited (upto 27th September, 2022)
Mahindra Finance USA, LLC
PF Holdings B.V.
Pininfarina S.p.A.
Mahindra Educational Institutions
Satyam Venture Engineering Services Private Limited
Tech Mahindra (Shanghai) Co. Limited
Tech Mahindra Foundation
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited
PSL Media & Communications Limited
Kumsan Dokum Mazelmeri A.S.
Comviva Technologies Limited
Pininfarina Engineering S.R.L
Golde Pune Automotive India, Pvt Ltd.
Participaciones Internacionales Autometal Dos S.L.
Born Commerce Private Limited
Tech Mahindra (Americas) Inc.

4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18

21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39

Medwell Ventures Private Limited
Golde Wuhan Co., Ltd
Kiinteistö Oy Seniori-Saimaa
ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited
Shiga Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.
Kagawa Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.
Okanetsu Industry Co., Ltd.
Kitaiwate Ryono Co., Ltd.
Aizu Ryono Co, Ltd.
Joban Ryono Co., Ltd.
Fukuryo Kiki Hanbai Co., Ltd.
Ibaraki Ryono Co., Ltd.
Yamaichi Honten Co., Ltd.
Tech Mahindra Business Services Limited
Aurangabad Electricals, Ltd
Golde Bengaluru India Private Limited
Great Rocksport Private Limited (w.e.f. 16th April, 2022)
Mahindra University
ZipZap Logistics Private Limited (w.e.f. 8th April, 2022)

Joint Ventures:

Sr. No. Name of the entity
1
2
3

Sr. No. Name of the entity

Classic Legends Private Limited
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited (upto 28th March, 2023)
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private
Limited)
Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited
Mahindra World City Developers Limited
Gippsaero Pty. Limited (upto 28th March, 2023)
Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited
(upto 28th March, 2023)
Sampo Algeria Spa (w.e.f. 22nd July, 2022)
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited
Sampo-Rosenlew Oy (upto 21st July, 2022)
M.I.T.R.A. Agro Equipments Private Limited
(upto 16th March, 2023)
Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private Limited
Mahindra Homes Private Limited
Transtech Logistics Private Limited
Aquasail Distribution Company Private Limited
Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd (upto 28th March 2023)
Mahindra Susten Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, 2022)
Tropiikin Rantasauna Oy

Sr. No. Name of the entity
19
20
21

Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited
Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited (upto 16th June, 2022)

22
23
24
25

Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited
Zoomcar India Private Limited
Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited
Mahindra-BT Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited

26
27
28
29

Jinan Qingqi Peugeot Motocycles Co Ltd (upto 31st January, 2023)
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited
Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited
Carnot Technologies Private Limited

30
31
32
33
34
35

Marvel Solren Private Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)
Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited
Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private Limited
Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, 2022)
Martial Solren Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, 2022)
Mahindra Renewables Private Limited (w.e.f 23rd December, 2022)

387

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

41. Related party disclosures (contd.)
(a) Names of related parties where transactions have taken place during the year: (contd.)
		

(iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP):
Sr. No. Name of KMP

Designation

1

Mr. Anand G. Mahindra

Chairman

2

Dr. Anish Shah

Managing Director and CEO

3

Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar

Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)

4

Dr. Vishakha N. Desai

Independent Director

5

Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta

Independent Director

6

Mr. T. N. Manoharan

Independent Director

7

Mr. Haigreve Khaitan

Independent Director

8

Mrs. Shikha Sharma

Independent Director

9

Mr. C. P. Gurnani

Non-Executive Non-Independent Director

10

Ms. Nisaba Godrej

Independent Director

11

Mr. Muthiah Murugappan

Independent Director

12

Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma

Nominee Director

		

(iv) Close member of KMP and entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP:
Sr. No. Close member of KMP

Sr. No. Close member of KMP

1

Mrs. Anuradha Mahindra

4

Mrs. Vasundhara Modi

2

Mrs. Radhika Nath

5

Mrs. Veena Jejurikar

3

Dr. T. N. Gajendran

Sr. No. Entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP
1

The Indian & Eastern Engineer Company Private Limited

2

Araku Originals Private Limited

3

Harulika Ventures LLP

		

(v)

Entity belonging to Promoter/Promoter Group holding 10% or more in the company:

Sr. No. Name of the Company
1

Prudential Management & Services Private Limited
(vi) Welfare Funds/Post-employment benefit plans:

Sr. No. Name of the Funds

Sr. No. Name of the Funds

1

M&M Employees' Welfare Fund 1

5

Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Gratuity Scheme

2

M&M Employees' Welfare Fund 2

6

Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff Provident Fund

3

M&M Employees' Welfare Fund 3

7

Mahindra And Mahindra Limited Staff & Workmen's Superannuation
Scheme

4

Mahindra World School Education Trust

8

Mahindra And Mahindra Limited Superannuation Scheme

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

388

41. Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b)

The related party transactions are as under:
Rupees crores

Sr.
No.

Nature of Transactions

1.

Purchases:
Goods.............................................................

Property, plant & equipment
and Intangible assets..........................

Services........................................................

2.

Property, plant and equipment....

Services........................................................

Proceeds from sale of shares......

Proceeds from capital
reduction/buyback of shares.........

KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP

Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP

2023

3,295.42

222.16

—

—

—

—

2022

2,881.64

428.59

—

—

—

—

2023

40.01

0.04

—

—

—

—

2022

16.75

0.04

—

—

—

—

2023

456.57

29.76

—

—

—

—

2022

220.20

10.87

—

—

—

—

2023

303.54

978.16

—

—

—

—

2022

235.81

749.95

—

—

—

—

2023

—

*

—

—

—

—

2022

0.01

*

—

—

—

—

2023

74.42

80.98

0.14

—

—

—

2022

39.77

64.82

—

0.55

—

0.01

2023

12.00

72.47

0.06

—

—

—

2022

14.47

110.50

—

—

—

—

2023

234.91

—

—

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

—

70.93

—

—

—

—

2022

—

55.05

—

—

—

—

2023

—

0.79

—

—

—

—

2022

6.84

1.88

—

—

—

—

2023

3.67

1.26

—

—

—

—

2022

6.84

1.88

—

—

—

—

2023

—

—

27.21

—

—

—

2022

—

—

38.54

—

—

—

Management contracts including
deputation of personnel:
From parties..............................................

To parties....................................................

5.

Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries

Investments:
Purchases/subscribed/
conversion..................................................

4.

Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate

Sales:
Goods.............................................................

3.

Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding 10%
or more in
the company

For the Year
Ended 31
March

Managerial remuneration.................

389

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

41. Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Sr.
No.

Nature of Transactions

6.

Stock options...................................................

7.

8.
9.

Commission and other benefits
to non-executive/independent
directors (including nominee
directors) **........................................................
Others (sitting fees) #.......................

Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding 10%
or more in
the company

For the Year
Ended 31
March

Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate

Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries

KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP

Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP

2023

—

—

6.98

—

—

—

2022

—

—

5.18

—

—

—

2023

—

—

3.89

—

—

—

2022

—

—

3.89

—

—

—

2023

—

—

0.14

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

—

580.00

—

—

—

—

2022

—

202.43

—

—

—

—

2023

—

170.72

0.61

—

—

5.00

2022

—

173.89

7.22

—

—

5.00

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

1.00

13.62

—

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

150.00

—

—

—

—

—

2023

50.86

0.77

—

2.14

—

—

2022

200.90

—

—

—

—

—

2023

51.55

0.62

—

2.19

—

—

2022

510.90

—

—

—

—

—

2023

4,141.43

—

—

—

—

—

2022

3,742.49

—

—

—

—

—

2023

—

36.09

0.03

—

—

—

2022

—

15.19

0.11

—

—

—

2023

12.71

5.85

—

0.16

—

—

2022

19.64

9.24

—

—

—

—

2023

1,296.66

94.35

—

—

—

—

2022

1,212.48

33.30

—

—

—

—

Finance:
Inter corporate deposits/loan
given...............................................................
Inter Corporate Deposits/loan
refunded by parties.............................
Debenture redeemed by related
parties...........................................................
Debenture redeemed to related
parties...........................................................
Inter corporate deposits /loan
taken..............................................................
Inter corporate deposits /loan
refunded......................................................
Invoice Discounting..............................
Interest income.......................................
Interest expense....................................
Dividend received....................................

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

390

41. Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Sr.
No.

Nature of Transactions

Dividend distributed...............................

Share application money given...

10.

11.

12.

Guarantees and collaterals
given (transactions during the
year)................................................................

Guarantees and collaterals
taken(transactions during the
year)................................................................

Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate

Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries

KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP

Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP

2023

—

—

2.15

0.65

163.46

1.48

2022

—

—

1.49

0.48

123.83

1.12

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

—

62.27

—

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

—

42.25

—

—

—

—

2023

—

—

—

—

—

—

2022

0.29

—

—

—

—

—

2023

2.99

16.76

—

0.50

—

—

2022

15.73

19.75

—

*

—

—

2023

94.93

5.15

—

0.21

—

321.28

2022

2.05

—

—

0.20

—

237.02

2023

39.30

25.12

—

0.02

—

42.41

2022

9.30

17.99

0.18

0.02

—

40.53

2023

0.71

18.64

—

—

—

—

2022

1.02

7.00

—

—

—

—

2023

459.24

22.84

*

0.03

—

—

2022

460.22

114.21

3.18

0.05

—

—

2023

52.83

166.18

—

—

—

42.41

2022

104.82

80.75

0.96

0.01

—

32.45

2023

—

204.32

—

—

—

—

2022

—

84.07

—

—

—

—

2023

—

54.71

—

—

—

—

2022

—

54.71

—

—

—

—

Other Transactions:
Other income...........................................

Other expenses.......................................

Reimbursements received from
parties...........................................................

Reimbursements made to
parties...........................................................

13.

Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding 10%
or more in
the company

For the Year
Ended 31
March

Outstandings:
Trade and other payable..................
Trade and other receivables.............
Debentures/preference shares
issued by parties....................................
Debentures issued to parties.............

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

391

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

41. Related party disclosures (contd.)
(b)

The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores

Sr.
No.

Nature of Transactions

Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate

Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries

KMP /KMP
Exercising
Significant
Influence/
close
member of
KMP

Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP

2023

—

742.58

0.38

—

—

—

2022

—

100.92

—

—

—

—

2023

200.21

24.69

—

2.59

—

—

2022

200.90

17.55

—

—

—

—

2023

0.02

—

—

—

—

—

2022

0.02

0.89

—

—

—

—

2023

—

1.18

—

—

—

—

2022

—

—

—

—

—

—

2023

553.66

—

—

—

—

—

2022

521.98

42.25

—

—

—

—

Inter corporate deposits given....
Inter corporate deposits /loan
taken..............................................................
14.
15.
16

Welfare
Entity
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding 10%
or more in
the company

For the Year
Ended 31
March

Security deposit paid..........................
Advances given...........................................
Guarantees given outstanding

*

denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.

#

In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme

**

includes sitting fees and commission paid/payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a partner.

42. Segment information
Operating Segments
	The reportable segments of the Group are Automotive, Farm Equipment, Financial Services, Real Estate, Hospitality and Others. The segments are largely
organised and managed separately according to the organisation structure that is designed based on the nature of products and services and profile
of customers. Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Description of the each of the reportable segments is as under:
Automotive: This segment comprises of sale of automobiles, spares, mobility solutions, construction equipments and related services.
Farm Equipment: This segment comprises of sale of tractors, implements, spares and related services.
	
Financial Services: This segment comprises of offering financial products ranging from retail and other loans, SME finance, housing finance, mutual funds
and life and non-life insurance broking services.
Real Estate: This segment comprises of projects, project management & development and operating of commercial complexes.
Hospitality: This segment comprises of sale of timeshare and vacation ownership.
	
Others: This segment mainly comprises of IT Services, after-market, defence, steel trading and processing, logistics, solar, powerol, agri business,
two-wheelers, etc.
	The Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates the companies performance and allocates resources based on an analysis of various performance
indicators by operating segments. The CODM reviews revenue and gross profit as the performance indicator for all of the operating segments.
	The measurement of each segment’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities is consistent with the accounting policies that are used in preparation of
the consolidated financial statements. Segment result represents the profit before interest and tax without allocation of central administration costs,
share of profit /(loss) of associates and joint ventures.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

392

42. Segment Information (contd.)
Information regarding the Group’s reportable segments is presented below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

Automotive

Farm
Equipment

Financial
Services

Real Estate

Hospitality

Others

Total

Eliminations Consolidated
Total

59,502.69

31,690.61

12,554.28

614.27

2,524.84

14,381.86

1,21,268.55

— 1,21,268.55

Revenue
External Revenue........................................................

36,705.85

26,828.22

11,209.23

393.30

2,058.69

12,975.28

90,170.57

—

90,170.57

Inter Segment Revenue..........................................

311.89

337.56

—

2.22

0.51

2,891.54

3,543.72

(3,543.72)

—

306.77

231.34

—

3.98

0.56

2,132.97

2,675.62

(2,675.62)

—

Total Revenue.............................................................

59,814.58

32,028.17

12,554.28

616.49

2,525.35

17,273.40

1,24,812.27

37,012.62

27,059.56

11,209.23

397.28

2,059.25

15,108.25

92,846.19

(2,675.62)

90,170.57

3,651.15

4,212.32

2,789.04

(100.84)

200.66

716.51

11,468.84

18.09

11,486.93

1,253.78

3,890.71

1,403.64

(80.55)

99.42

664.59

7,231.59

20.50

7,252.09

(983.66)

(78.73)

(56.06)

—

—

(13.28)

(1,131.73)

—

(1,131.73)

(139.47)

(68.36)

—

—

—

—

(207.83)

—

(207.83)

2,667.49

4,133.59

2,732.98

(100.84)

200.66

703.23

10,337.11

18.09

10,355.20

1,114.31

3,822.35

1,403.64

(80.55)

99.42

664.59

7,023.76

20.50

7,044.26

(3,543.72) 1,21,268.55

Result
Segment result before exceptional items.
Add/(less): Exceptional items allocated to
Segments..........................................................................
Segment result after exceptional items.....
Share of profit/(loss) of equity accounted
investees (net)...............................................................

1,505.44
1,855.79

Reconciliation to Profit/(Loss) after tax
1. Unallocable corporate income, net of
expenses......................................................................

46.14
48.68

2. Interest expenses not allocable to
segments.....................................................................

(750.07)
(625.45)

3. Interest income not allocable to
segments.....................................................................

522.27
416.49

4. Exceptional Items unallocable to
Segments....................................................................

2,381.25
622.00

Profit before tax..........................................................

14,060.23

Tax expense....................................................................

(2,685.75)

Profit after tax..............................................................

11,374.48

9,361.77
(2,108.76)
7,253.01
Out of total external revenue above:-

2023

2022

– From contract with customers
(as defined under Ind AS 115).......................

1,07,940.23

78,333.23

– From financial services........................................

12,152.00

10,923.82

– Others..............................................................................

1,176.32

913.52

Total.....................................................................................

1,21,268.55

90,170.57

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

393

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

42. Segment Information (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars

Automotive

Farm
Equipment

Financial
Services

Real Estate

Hospitality

Others

Total

Eliminations Consolidated
Total

2,676.29

575.19

212.89

12.20

290.01

554.88

4,321.46

—

4,321.46

2,098.60

459.55

151.99

6.59

270.75

482.12

3,469.60

—

3,469.60

Impairment expense...................................................

983.66

78.73

56.06

—

—

13.28

1,131.73

—

1,131.73

139.47

68.36

—

—

—

—

207.83

—

207.83

Additions to non-current assets........................

3,599.11

998.51

412.13

11.92

216.89

1,035.26

6,273.82

—

6,273.82

2,752.46

881.47

297.76

13.36

156.39

1,896.71

5,998.15

—

5,998.15

Other information:
Depreciation and Amortisation expense......

Notes:
(i)	Additions to non-current assets comprises of capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including those under
development and capital advances.
(ii)	Figures in the above table for the current financial year have been presented in bold. Comparatives for each item have been presented below the
respective current year figures.
Segment assets and liabilities

Rupees crores

Particulars

Automotive

Farm
Equipment

Financial
Services

Real Estate

Hospitality

Others

Total

Eliminations Consolidated
Total

Segment Assets............................................................

31,116.05

16,906.92

95,191.21

2,229.05

6,780.08

13,822.07

1,66,045.38

26,158.75

12,176.40

75,201.63

2,178.44

6,566.60

16,284.83

Segment Liabilities.....................................................

19,376.23

8,473.10

85,804.94

1,175.66

7,957.93

4,705.63

14,274.28

6,925.83

66,184.64

850.77

7,452.97

5,574.89

1,01,263.38

—

—

1,66,045.38

1,38,566.65

—

1,38,566.65

1,27,493.49

— 1,27,493.49
1,01,263.38

Reconciliation of segment assets to total
assets:
Segment Assets............................................................

1,66,045.38
1,38,566.65

Unallocable Assets.....................................................

39,846.39
35,546.15

Total Assets..................................................................

2,05,891.77
1,74,112.80

Unallocable Assets primarily comprise of equity accounted investment in associates and joint ventures, other investments, income tax assets, deferred tax assets.
Reconciliation of segment liabilities to
total liabilities:
Segment Liabilities.....................................................

1,27,493.49
1,01,263.38

Unallocable Liabilities...............................................

11,316.17

Total Liabilities...........................................................

1,38,809.66

16,024.16

1,17,287.54

Unallocable Liabilities primarily comprise of borrowings (excluding related to Financial Services Segment) and deferred tax liability.
Revenue from type of products and services
The operating segments are primarily based on nature of products and services and hence the Revenue from external customers of each segment is
representative of revenue based on products and services.

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

394

42. Segment Information (contd.)
Geographical information
The Group operates in principal geographical areas – India (country of domicile), and Overseas. The Group’s revenue from operations from external customers
and information about its non-current assets by geographical location are detailed below:
Rupees crores
Particulars

For the year Ended 31st March,
2023

2022

2023

2022

Revenue
from
contract with
customers

Other
revenue

Total
external
revenue

NonCurrent
assets

NonCurrent
assets

1,04,134.18

62,831.04

11,667.69

74,498.73 32,180.66

33,729.02

148.46

17,134.37

15,502.19

169.65

15,671.84

3,354.39

2,935.44

1,07,940.23 13,328.32

1,21,268.55

78,333.23

11,837.34

90,170.57 35,535.05

36,664.46

Revenue
from
contract with
customers

Other Total external
revenue
revenue

India ..................................................................................

90,954.32 13,179.86

Overseas..........................................................................

16,985.91

Total...................................................................................

As at 31st March,

The revenue information above is based on the location of the customer. The non-current assets in the above table represent Property, plant
and equipment, Capital work-in-progress, Goodwill, Other intangible assets, Intangibles under development, Income tax assets (Net) and Other
non-current assets (Non-financial).
Information about major customers
During the year ended 31st March, 2023 and 2022 respectively, revenues from transactions with a single external customer did not amount
to 10 per cent or more of the Group’s revenues from external customers.
43. Employee Stock Option Plan
The Company has allotted 55,24,219 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 10 each, 10,00,000 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 10 each, 1,73,53,034 Ordinary (Equity)
Shares of Rs. 5 each, 19,11,628 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each and 52,00,000 Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. 5 each in the years ended 31st March,
2002, 31st March, 2010, 31st March, 2011, 31st March, 2014 and 31st March, 2015 respectively to the Mahindra & Mahindra Employees’ Stock Option Trust
(“M&M ESOP Trust”) set up by the Company. The Trust holds these shares for the benefit of the employees and issues them to the eligible employees as per
the recommendations of the Compensation Committee.
Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - 2000 (“2000 Scheme”) vest in 4 equal instalments on the expiry of
12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 48 months from the date of grant. The options may be exercised on any day over a period of five years from the date
of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a minimum of 50 or number of options vested whichever is lower.
Options granted under Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme - 2010 (“2010 Scheme”) vest in
i)

5 equal instalments on the expiry of 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, 48 months and 60 months or

ii)

5 equal instalments on the expiry of 36 months, 48 months, 60 months, 72 months and 84 months or

iii)	4 instalments bifurcated as 20% on the expiry of 18 months, 20% on the expiry of 30 months, 30% on the expiry of 42 months and 30% on the expiry
of 54 months or
iv)	4 equal instalments on the expiry of 12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 48 months or
v)	3 instalments bifurcated as 33.33% on the expiry of 12 months, 33.33% on the expiry of 24 months and 33.34% on the expiry of 36 months or
vi)	2 instalments bifurcated as 50% on the expiry of 12 months and 50% on the expiry of 24 months or
vii)	2 instalments bifurcated as 40% on the expiry of 36 months and 60% on the expiry of 60 months or
The exercise period of above options range from 1 year to 6 years from the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a minimum
of 50 or number of options vested whichever is lower.

395

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

43. Employee Stock Option Plan (contd.)
Summary of stock options

Particulars

No. of stock options

Weighted average exercise
price (Rs.)

Options outstanding on 1st April, 2022......................................................................................................................

59,16,500

4.66

Options granted during the year ..................................................................................................................................

12,79,379

5.00

Options forfeited/lapsed during the year ...............................................................................................................

3,02,061

4.44

Options exercised during the year ..............................................................................................................................

11,80,694

4.09

Options outstanding on 31st March, 2023...............................................................................................................

57,13,124

3.67

Options vested but not exercised on 31 March, 2023................................................................................

20,32,636

4.36

st

Average share price on the date of exercise of the options are as under:
Date of exercise

Weighted average share price
(Rs.)

01st April, 2022 to 21st March, 2023........................................................................................................................................................................................................

1,217.04

Information in respect of options outstanding as at 31st March, 2023
Range of exercise price

Number of options

Weighted average
remaining life

Rs. 2.50.............................................................................................................................................................................................

5,07,253

1.87 years

Rs. 5.00.............................................................................................................................................................................................

52,05,871

4.58 years

No. of years vesting

Fair value per options

3 years

Rs. 886.37

The fair values of options granted during the year are as follows:
Grant Date
27 May, 2022
th

04 August, 2022

4 years

Rs. 1201.91

10th November, 2022

3 years

Rs. 1294.00

10th February, 2023

2 years

Rs. 1320.57

* 23rd February, 2023

2 - 5 years

Rs. 1275.83

th

The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Options Pricing Model and the significant assumptions made in this regard are as follows:
Particulars

Risk free interest rate (%).....................................................................

Grant dated
27th May,
2022
(3 years
vesting)

04th August,
2022
(4 years
vesting)

10th November,
2022
(3 years
vesting)

10th February,
2023
(2 years
vesting)

* 23rd February,
2023
(2 - 5 years
vesting)

6.73%

6.90%

7.11%

7.28%

6.80% - 7.02%
0.55 - 5.36 Years

Expected life (in years)............................................................................

4 years

4 years

4 Years

6 Years

Expected volatility (%).............................................................................

37.59%

36.07%

37.34%

33.23% 33.62% - 46.04%

Expected dividend yield (%).................................................................

1.24%

0.92%

0.86%

0.64%

0.96%

Exercise Price (Rs.)......................................................................................

5

5

5

5

5

Stock Price (Rs.)............................................................................................

886.37

1201.91

1294.00

1320.57

1275.83

*

pursuant to MEML merger

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

396

44. Contingent Liability & Commitments
(A) Contingent Liability:
		

(a)

Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts comprise of:

			

(i)	Excise Duty, Sales Tax, and Service Tax claims disputed by the Group relating to issues of applicability and classification aggregating
Rs. 3,646.89 crores before tax (2022: Rs. 2,024.67 crores before tax).

			

(ii)	Other matters (excluding claims where amounts are not ascertainable): Rs. 567.14 crores before tax (2022: Rs. 448.46 crores
before tax).

		

Taxation matters:

(b)

			

(i)	Demands against the Group not acknowledged as debts and not provided for, relating to issues of deductibility and taxability in respect
of which the Group is in appeal and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed:

				
			

				
		

–

Income-tax: Rs. 2,098.42 crores (2022: Rs. 1,230.78 crores).

(ii)	Items in respect of which the Group has succeeded in appeal, but the Income-tax Department is pursuing/likely to pursue in appeal/
reference and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed:
–

Income-tax matters: Rs. 740.59 crores (2022: Rs. 683.43 crores).

(c)	In respect of (a) & (b) above, it is not practicable for the Group to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of cash
flows, if any.

(B) Commitments:
		The estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for as at 31st March, 2023 is Rs. 2,926.43 crores
(2022: Rs. 2,150.66 crores) and other commitment as at 31st March, 2023 is Rs. 631.45 crores (2022: Rs. 477.76 crores).
45. Research and Development expenditure
In recognised Research and Development units:
	Debited to the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Group, aggregate
Rs. 858.48 crores (2022: Rs. 909.52 crores).
46. Regulatory order
	A subsidiary of the Company has received an order (‘the Order’) from National Financial Reporting Authority (‘NFRA’) on 29th March, 2023 wherein
NFRA has made certain observations on identification of operating segments by the subsidiary in compliance with requirements of Ind AS 108 and the
Subsidiary’s existing accounting policy for recognition of revenue on straight-line basis over the membership period. The Subsidiary is in the process of
conducting the review as required by the Order.
	As at 31st March, 2023, the management of the subsidiary has assessed the application of its accounting policies relating to segment disclosures and
revenue recognition. Basis the current assessment by the subsidiary after considering the information available as on date, the existing accounting
policies, practices and disclosures are in compliance with the respective Ind AS and accordingly have been applied by the subsidiary in the preparation
of its financial statements.

397

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

47.	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise

Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities

Share of Profit or loss

Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)

Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)

As % of
consolidated
net assets

Amount

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount

As % of
consolidated
OCI

Amount

As % of
consolidated
TCI

Amount

76.92%

43,356.73

63.69%

6,548.64

43.66%

(74.24)

64.03%

6,474.40

Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited

1.33%

749.92

0.67%

68.81

-0.27%

0.46

0.69%

69.27

NBS International Limited

0.02%

9.67

0.05%

5.58

-0.02%

0.04

0.06%

5.62

Gromax Agri Equipment Limited

0.08%

47.72

-0.02%

(2.30)

-0.02%

0.04

-0.02%

(2.26)

Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited

-0.04%

(20.48)

-0.69%

(71.07)

-0.19%

0.33

-0.70%

(70.74)

Mahindra Fruits Private Limited

0.00%

0.11

0.00%

(0.10)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.10)

Mahindra HZPC Private Limited

0.01%

3.42

0.01%

1.04

0.00%

—

0.01%

1.04

Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited
(Consolidated)

0.29%

163.41

-0.12%

(12.24)

-0.17%

0.29

-0.12%

(11.95)

Kota Farm Services Limited

0.00%

(0.31)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Bristlecone India Limited

0.22%

124.31

0.33%

33.44

0.53%

(0.90)

0.32%

32.54

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited (Consolidated)

32.93%

18,560.09

20.16%

2,072.40

19.78%

(33.63)

20.16%

2,038.77

Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly
known as Mahindra Intertrade
Limited) (Consolidated)

1.58%

889.89

1.25%

128.08

1.72%

(2.93)

1.24%

125.15

Mahindra Consulting Engineers
Limited (upto 16th March, 2023)

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.14

-0.11%

0.18

0.00%

0.32

Mahindra Lifespace Developers
Limited (Consolidated)

3.20%

1,805.77

0.99%

101.41

-0.05%

0.09

1.00%

101.50

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited

-0.18%

(100.99)

1.54%

158.58

-0.52%

0.88

1.58%

159.46

Mahindra Hotels and Residences India
Limited

0.00%

(1.36)

-0.01%

(1.18)

0.00%

—

-0.01%

(1.18)

Gables Promoters Private Limited

0.11%

62.62

0.03%

3.27

0.00%

—

0.03%

3.27

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited ESOP Trust

0.01%

8.43

0.00%

0.16

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.16

Mahindra Holdings Limited

5.08%

2,863.73

4.38%

450.28

0.00%

—

4.45%

450.28

Mahindra Namaste Limited (upto
16th March, 2023)

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.17

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.17

PARENT
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited
SUBSIDIARIES
Indian

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

398

47.	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise

Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities

Share of Profit or loss

Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)

Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)

As % of
consolidated
net assets

Amount

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount

As % of
consolidated
OCI

Amount

As % of
consolidated
TCI

Amount

Mahindra Integrated Business
Solutions Private Limited

0.33%

184.51

0.26%

26.90

1.43%

(2.43)

0.24%

24.47

Mahindra Susten Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.28%

28.76

0.00%

—

0.28%

28.76

Mahindra Teqo Private Limited

0.05%

26.05

0.08%

8.03

0.00%

—

0.08%

8.03

Mahindra Renewables Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.26%

26.57

0.00%

—

0.26%

26.57

Mega Suryaurja Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

-0.16%

(16.30)

0.00%

—

-0.16%

(16.30)

Neo Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.44

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.44

Astra Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.07%

7.66

0.00%

—

0.08%

7.66

Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited

0.43%

241.05

0.46%

46.83

-0.01%

0.01

0.46%

46.84

Mahindra Defence Systems Limited

0.81%

456.87

0.54%

56.01

0.00%

—

0.55%

56.01

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited
(Consolidated)

0.32%

180.90

-1.09%

(111.83)

-0.06%

0.10

-1.10%

(111.73)

Mahindra eMarket Limited

0.00%

(0.98)

0.00%

(0.01)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.01)

M & M Benefit Trust

2.11%

1,189.45

0.85%

87.80

0.00%

—

0.87%

87.80

Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust

1.11%

625.82

0.38%

39.51

0.00%

—

0.39%

39.51

Sunrise Initiatives Trust

0.03%

15.81

-0.07%

(7.08)

0.00%

—

-0.07%

(7.08)

Mahindra Construction Company
Limited

-0.04%

(21.60)

0.01%

0.87

0.00%

—

0.01%

0.87

Officemartindia.com Limited

0.00%

(0.25)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited

0.03%

18.03

0.01%

1.25

0.02%

(0.04)

0.01%

1.21

Trringo.com Limited

0.00%

1.91

0.00%

(0.19)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.19)

Mahindra Airways Limited

0.11%

60.67

-0.02%

(1.61)

0.00%

—

-0.02%

(1.61)

Mahindra Consulting Engineers
Limited ESOP Trust
(upto 16th March, 2023)

0.00%

—

0.01%

1.46

0.00%

—

0.01%

1.46

Mahindra Logistics Limited
(Consolidated)

1.08%

606.79

0.19%

19.95

-0.69%

1.17

0.21%

21.12

399

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

47.	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise

Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities

Share of Profit or loss

Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)

Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)

As % of
consolidated
net assets

Amount

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount

As % of
consolidated
OCI

Amount

As % of
consolidated
TCI

Amount

Mahindra Waste to Energy Solutions
Limited

0.03%

15.90

-0.04%

(3.68)

0.00%

—

-0.04%

(3.68)

Mahindra Telecom Energy
Management Services Limited

0.12%

69.64

0.00%

0.02

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.02

Martial Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.03)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.03)

Mahindra Solarize Private Limited

0.07%

40.25

0.02%

2.18

-0.01%

0.01

0.02%

2.19

Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private
Limited (upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.08

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.08

Merakisan Private Limited
(upto 7th September, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Swaraj Engines Limited
(w.e.f. 28th September, 2022)

0.82%

460.50

0.51%

52.02

0.98%

(1.66)

0.50%

50.36

Mahindra Telephonics Integrated
Systems Limited
(w.e.f. 17th June, 2022)

0.00%

0.39

0.01%

0.94

0.00%

—

0.01%

0.94

M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited (w.e.f. 17th March, 2023)

0.06%

34.50

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Emergent Solren Private Limited
(w.e.f 9th November, 2022)

0.00%

0.01

0.00%

(0.04)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.04)

Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
(w.e.f. 25th October, 2022)

2.61%

1,468.93

-0.01%

(0.56)

0.00%

—

-0.01%

(0.56)

Guestline Hospitality Management
and Development Services Limited
(w.e.f 2nd December, 2022)

0.01%

5.13

0.00%

0.07

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.07

Resurgence Solarize Urja Private
Limited (w.e.f. 29th August, 2022)

0.02%

9.77

0.00%

(0.21)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.21)

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts
Harihareshwar Limited
(w.e.f. 23rd August, 2022)

0.00%

0.04

0.00%

(0.01)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.01)

Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited
(Consolidated) (w.e.f. 29th March
2023)

0.36%

201.54

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty.
Limited

0.07%

36.77

0.17%

17.76

0.27%

(0.46)

0.17%

17.30

Mahindra Europe S.r.l.

0.03%

14.85

0.02%

1.72

-0.51%

0.86

0.03%

2.58

Foreign

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

400

47.	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise

Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities

Share of Profit or loss

Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)

Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)

As % of
consolidated
net assets

Amount

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount

As % of
consolidated
OCI

Amount

As % of
consolidated
TCI

Amount

Mahindra & Mahindra South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited

0.16%

91.75

0.31%

31.40

5.84%

(9.93)

0.21%

21.47

Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc.
(upto 21st October, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.12%

12.12

7.57%

(12.87)

-0.01%

(0.75)

Mahindra USA Inc.

-0.08%

(43.83)

0.61%

62.66

7.67%

(13.04)

0.49%

49.62

Bristlecone Limited

-0.13%

(73.41)

0.00%

(0.44)

10.16%

(17.27)

-0.18%

(17.71)

Bristlecone Inc.

0.12%

70.12

0.20%

20.24

-4.52%

7.69

0.28%

27.93

Bristlecone Consulting Limited

0.01%

3.17

0.00%

0.29

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.29

Bristlecone International AG

0.04%

20.23

0.01%

0.75

-1.06%

1.80

0.03%

2.55

Bristlecone UK Limited

0.01%

6.27

0.00%

0.17

-0.10%

0.17

0.00%

0.34

Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

0.00%

1.86

0.00%

0.02

-0.04%

0.06

0.00%

0.08

Bristlecone Singapore Pte. Limited

0.02%

10.39

0.00%

0.18

-0.59%

1.00

0.01%

1.18

Bristlecone GmbH

0.09%

51.52

0.02%

2.04

-1.74%

2.96

0.05%

5.00

Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica
Limited

0.00%

0.82

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Heritage Bird (M) Sdn Bhd

0.00%

0.92

0.00%

0.35

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.35

MH Boutique Hospitality Limited

-0.01%

(4.64)

0.00%

(0.23)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.23)

Infinity Hospitality Group Company
Limited

0.01%

4.11

-0.01%

(0.83)

0.00%

—

-0.01%

(0.83)

MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited

-0.18%

(103.74)

-0.09%

(9.71)

0.00%

—

-0.10%

(9.71)

Covington S.à r.l

0.04%

20.22

-0.11%

(10.87)

0.00%

—

-0.11%

(10.87)

Arabian Dreams Hotel Apartments
LLC

0.01%

3.74

0.02%

1.67

-0.12%

0.20

0.02%

1.87

Holiday Club Resort Oy
(Consolidated)

0.40%

224.46

-0.01%

(0.82)

-7.13%

12.12

0.11%

11.30

Mahindra Overseas Investment
Company (Mauritius) Limited

-1.57%

(885.45)

-1.43%

(147.12)

103.48%

(175.95)

-3.20%

(323.07)

Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring
FZ-LLC (Consolidated)

0.06%

35.28

0.03%

3.52

-1.52%

2.58

0.06%

6.10

Mahindra Racing UK Limited

0.02%

12.76

0.28%

28.91

-0.55%

0.94

0.30%

29.85

401

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

47.	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise

Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities

Share of Profit or loss

Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)

Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)

As % of
consolidated
net assets

Amount

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount

As % of
consolidated
OCI

Amount

As % of
consolidated
TCI

Amount

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe
Holdings S.a r.l

0.00%

(0.03)

-5.61%

(576.72)

14.64%

(24.89)

-5.95%

(601.61)

Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.
(Consolidated) (upto 31st January,
2023)

0.00%

—

-0.94%

(96.40)

-2.46%

4.18

-0.91%

(92.22)

Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural
Machinery Co. Ltd (Consolidated)

0.39%

222.16

0.08%

8.20

0.46%

(0.79)

0.07%

7.41

Mahindra West Africa Ltd
(Liquidated on 4th January, 2023)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.02%

(0.03)

0.00%

(0.03)

Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L
(Under Liquidation)

-0.02%

(11.01)

0.00%

—

1.06%

(1.80)

-0.02%

(1.80)

Bristlecone Middle East DMCC

0.02%

9.30

0.00%

0.22

-0.80%

1.36

0.02%

1.58

Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda

0.20%

112.95

0.85%

87.55

-1.78%

3.02

0.90%

90.57

OFD Holding BV (Consolidated)
(upto 20th April, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

8.97%

(15.25)

-0.15%

(15.25)

Mahindra Automotive North America
Inc. (Consolidated)

0.18%

100.56

-0.65%

(66.74)

-3.42%

5.81

-0.60%

(60.93)

Erkunt Sanayi A.S.

0.93%

522.87

0.11%

11.12

33.54%

(57.02)

-0.45%

(45.90)

Erkunt Traktor Sanayii A.S

0.91%

510.61

0.47%

48.34

16.26%

(27.65)

0.20%

20.69

Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution
Holding Company (Europe) B.V.
(Liquidated on 28th February, 2023)

0.00%

—

0.07%

7.41

1.04%

(1.77)

0.06%

5.64

Automobili Pininfarina GmbH
(Consolidated)

-0.08%

(43.90)

-3.13%

(321.88)

3.33%

(5.67)

-3.24%

(327.55)

Mahindra Automotive Mauritius
Limited

-0.26%

(145.52)

-2.58%

(265.11)

0.00%

—

-2.62%

(265.11)

Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited
(Liquidated on 14th March, 2023)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.08)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.08)

MSPL International DMCC
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.04)

-0.36%

0.61

0.01%

0.57

Sampo Rosenlew Oy
(w.e.f. 22nd July, 2022)

0.01%

5.44

-0.46%

(47.01)

2.02%

(3.44)

-0.50%

(50.45)

0.00%

—

0.25%

26.19

0.00%

—

0.26%

26.19

Associates (Investment as per the
equity method)
Indian
Swaraj Engines Limited
(upto 27th September, 2022)

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

402

47.	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise

Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities

Share of Profit or loss

Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)

Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)

As % of
consolidated
net assets

Amount

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount

As % of
consolidated
OCI

Amount

As % of
consolidated
TCI

Amount

Tech Mahindra Limited (Consolidated)

13.98%

7,877.50

13.26%

1,362.91

-50.82%

86.41

14.33%

1,449.32

Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited
(Consolidated)

0.29%

163.15

-0.05%

(4.96)

-6.35%

10.79

0.06%

5.83

PSL Media & Communications Limited

0.00%

1.05

0.00%

0.02

0.00%

—

0.00%

0.02

Brainbees Solutions Private Limited
(Consolidated)

0.76%

425.98

-0.56%

(57.92)

-0.31%

0.53

-0.57%

(57.39)

Medwell Ventures Private Limited
(Consolidated)

0.03%

14.48

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

ReNew Sunlight Energy Private
Limited

0.02%

13.80

0.00%

(0.25)

0.00%

—

0.00%

(0.25)

Great Rocksport Private Limited
(w.e.f. 16th April, 2022)

0.01%

5.43

0.01%

0.79

-0.01%

0.01

0.01%

0.80

CIE Automotive S.A. (Consolidated)

1.42%

802.48

1.92%

197.47

-20.57%

34.97

2.30%

232.44

PF Holdings B.V. (Consolidated)

0.20%

109.93

-0.21%

(21.36)

-3.62%

6.15

-0.15%

(15.21)

Resson Aerospace Corporation

0.01%

7.53

-0.01%

(0.79)

-2.80%

4.76

0.04%

3.97

The East India Company Group Ltd
BVI (Consolidated)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing
India Private Limited (formerly known
as Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel
Private Limited)

0.03%

15.87

-0.06%

(6.34)

-0.86%

1.47

-0.05%

(4.87)

Mahindra Aerospace Pvt Limited
(Consolidated)
(upto 28th March, 2023)

0.00%

—

-0.14%

(14.14)

0.26%

(0.44)

-0.14%

(14.58)

Mahindra Susten Private Limited
(w.e.f 23rd December, 2022)

2.27%

1,278.89

0.18%

18.61

-2.06%

3.50

0.22%

22.11

Mahindra Telephonics Integrated
Systems Limited
(upto 16th June, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Foreign

Joint Ventures (Investment as per
the equity method)
Indian

403

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

47.	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (contd.)
Rupees crores
Name of the Enterprise

Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities

Share of Profit or loss

Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)

Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)

As % of
consolidated
net assets

Amount

As % of
consolidated
profit or loss

Amount

As % of
consolidated
OCI

Amount

As % of
consolidated
TCI

Amount

Classic Legends Private Limited
(Consolidated)

0.16%

89.80

-0.94%

(97.04)

-0.68%

1.15

-0.95%

(95.89)

M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited (upto 16th March, 2023)

0.00%

—

0.01%

1.53

0.00%

—

0.02%

1.53

Carnot Technologies Private Limited

0.01%

7.63

0.02%

2.36

0.04%

(0.07)

0.02%

2.29

Smartshift Logistics Solution Private
Limited (Consolidated)

0.24%

137.12

-0.45%

(45.86)

0.00%

—

-0.45%

(45.86)

Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited

0.03%

14.69

-0.44%

(45.16)

0.00%

—

-0.45%

(45.16)

Marvel Solren Private Limited
(upto 22nd December, 2022)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Aquasail Distribution Company
Private Limited

0.00%

0.51

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited
(Consolidated)

0.16%

90.37

0.08%

7.73

0.00%

—

0.08%

7.73

Mahindra-BT Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited

0.18%

103.17

0.02%

2.22

1.81%

(3.07)

-0.01%

(0.85)

Sampo Rosenlew Oy
(upto 21st July, 2022)

0.00%

—

-0.09%

(9.00)

0.00%

—

-0.09%

(9.00)

Zoomcar Inc. (Consolidated)

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

0.00%

—

Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited

0.01%

3.22

-0.01%

(1.44)

0.21%

(0.35)

-0.02%

(1.79)

Non controlling Interest

-19.01%

(10,716.32)

-10.63%

(1,092.98)

-9.97%

16.96

-10.64%

(1,076.02)

Consolidation adjustments and
Inter Company Eliminations

-34.20%

(19,276.40)

14.64%

1,505.36

-59.93%

101.90

15.90%

1,607.26

Total

100.00%

56,365.79

100.00%

10,281.50

100.00%

(170.03)

100.00%

10,111.47

Foreign

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

404

48. Transaction with Struck off Companies
Rupees crores

Name of the Struck of Company

Receivables

Payables

Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Argus Media Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Asmita Fire Safety Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Babace Pneumatics Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Badri Sarraf Finance And Mutual Benefit Company Limited

—

—

796

—

—

Baux Arch Tech Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Beauty Xl India Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Bkg Securities Limited

—

—

32

—

—

C Cube Sports Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

0.17

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

Chowdhary Motors Private Limited
Country Inn & Suites By Carlson (A U)
Diamond Automobiles Private Limited

—

0.04

—

—

—

Dimension Data India Private Limited

—

0.03

—

—

—

Dimensions Engineering Technologies Private Limited

—

—

—

*

—

Dreams Comtrade Private Limited

—

—

2

—

—

East West Power Genset Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Elegant Finvest Private Limited

—

—

4

—

—

Enffluence Technologies Limited

—

0.02

—

—

—

Frontline Corporate Finance Limited

—

—

1,944

—

—

Garlick Designing And Consultancy Private Limited

—

—

264

—

—

Greenair Engg. Solutions Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

H.K. Exports Private Limited

—

—

700

—

—

Hanaro Hospitality Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Hbn Homes Colonisers Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Heeraraj R&D And Automations Private Limited

*

—

—

*

—

0.07

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

High Calibre Cnc Centre Private Limited
Horizon Staffing And Technical Solutions Private Limited
Horizon Staffing Solutions Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Hudson Engineering Industries Private Limited

—

—

1,200

—

—

Jagat Trading Enterprises Limited

—

—

100

—

—

Jaipal Consultancy Private Limited

—

—

1

—

—

Janardana Investments Private Limited

—

—

12

—

—

Joseph Cardijn Auto Services Private Limited

*

*

—

—

—

K S Furniture Makers Private Limited

—

0.02

—

—

—

Kamla Landmarc Cars Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Leela Trade Link Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Lektronix India Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Loni Corporate Training Private Limited

—

—

—

*

—

405

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

48. Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores

Name of the Struck of Company

Receivables

Payables

Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

Magnate Leasing And Finance Private Limited

—

—

104

—

—

Maptronicz Technologies Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Midwest Mutual Fund Limited

—

—

192

—

—

0.04

—

—

—

—

Nttf Industries Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Oxford Automotive Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Pals Specalised Tooling System Private Limited

—

—

—

*

—

Popular Stock And Share Services Private Limited

—

—

1,328

—

—

Positive Leasing And Finance Private Limited

—

—

1,232

—

—

Purushothama Investments Private Limited

—

—

20

—

—

0.01

—

—

—

0.01

Rajpal Control Systems Private Limited

—

—

160

—

—

Ray Shield Technology Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Right View Audio Visual Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Rishiroop Polymers Pvt. Ltd. (Trnsfr)

—

—

6,715

—

—

0.03

—

—

—

—

Rofin Baasel Laser India Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

S J N Industries

*

—

—

—

—

Safna Consultancy Private Limited

—

—

800

—

—

Sahil Genset Sales Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Sartaj Mega Project India Private Limited

*

*

—

—

—

Serene Paints & Colors Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Shalaka Technologies Private Limited

—

0.07

—

—

—

Shivraj Oils Private Limited

—

—

—

*

—

Sincere Securities Private Limited

—

—

16

—

—

Sindhudurg Investments Private Limited

—

—

400

—

—

Sirius Transtech Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Suviron Products Private Limited

—

—

80

—

—

0.01

—

—

—

—

The India Sugar Agencies Private Limited

—

—

80

—

—

Think Creative Communications Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Ti Tsubamex Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Vennela And Venket Saai Projects India Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Versatile Options And Solutions Private Limited

—

0.02

—

—

—

Welcome Telecom Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Niche Events And Promotions Private Limited

R.S. Ajit Singh & Co

Robomatrix Automation & Solutions Private Limited

Technosteel Commercial Kitchen Equipments Private Limited

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

406

48. Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores

Name of the Struck of Company

Receivables

Payables

Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited
Elite Enterprises

—

—

—

0.02

—

Acme D' Ace Marketing Solutions

—

—

—

0.01

*

—

—

—

—

0.01

Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited
Sanwaliya Motors Private Limited
Rampadarath Singh Motors Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

0.01

—

—

—

—

R. S. Ajit Singh & Co. (Automotives) Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Sivsakthi Automobiles Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Mud Flap Technologies Private Limited

—

—

—

—

*

Efcee Sarovar Portico

*

—

—

—

—

Keller Ground Engineering India Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Golden Tulip

*

—

—

—

—

0.01

1.01

—

—

—

Oswal Denims

*

—

—

—

—

Ge Global Servicing Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

G.S.T Corporation Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Dana India Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Adsare Hotels Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Ride Car Zone Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

T.R. Travels Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

M Y Transport Company Private Limited

—

0.17

—

—

—

Balaji Translogistic Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Fountainhead Lifestyle Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Shraddha Logistics Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Abc Legal Consultation

—

0.10

—

—

—

O-Links Technology Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Konect Infonet Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Shine Freight Systems India Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Jatayu Logistics Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Trimurty Tourism Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Purwanchal Tours And Travels Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Swiss Cabs India Private Limited

—

0.01

—

—

—

Gap Automodi Private Limited

Mahindra Logistics Limited

Sundharams Private Limited

407

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

BOARD’S
REPORT

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

48. Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores

Name of the Struck of Company

S K S Automobiles India Private Limited

Receivables

Payables

Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

—

*

—

—

—

Sst Concierge Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Pace Micro Technology (India) Limited

—

—

—

—

*

Jayem Automotives Private Limited

—

—

—

—

0.01

Oxon Healthcare Services Private Limited

—

—

—

0.03

—

Loginext Solutions Private Limited

—

—

—

*

—

Prajapati Logistics Private Limited

—

—

—

0.01

—

0.04

—

—

—

—

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd.
Ashwani Enterprises Private Limited
Cocowings Enterprises Private Limited

0.03

—

—

—

—

Mansarovar India Aqua Beverages Private Limited

0.01

—

—

—

—

Sathesri Agro Products Private Limited

0.06

—

—

—

—

Brilliant Risie Private Limited

0.07

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

Alcrooks And Cook Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Kiran Enviro-Tech Energy Private Limited

Om Dhar Engineering Private Limited

0.02

—

—

—

—

Garhwal Aircon Services Private Limited

0.07

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

0.02

—

—

—

—

Igi Corporation Private Limited
Mra Refino Private Limited
GR Auditya Renewable Energies Private Limited

0.06

—

—

—

—

JCR Infrabuilt Private Limited

0.04

—

—

—

—

Novocon Solution Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Devine Devbuild Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Engineers Realty Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Puneeth Techno Projects Private Limited

0.03

—

—

—

—

Probus Infratech Private Limited

0.07

—

—

—

—

Atcom Infratech Private Limited

0.04

—

—

—

—

Goludev Infrastructure Private Limited

0.02

—

—

—

—

Ssng Business Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Navadhara Super Market Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Nirban Logistics Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Asvrj Logistic Private Limited

0.01

—

—

—

—

Spxpress Logistics Private Limited

0.07

—

—

—

—

Sltt India Private Limited

0.03

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

Dharaa Mobility Private Limited
Auto World Private Limited
Ra Globalcity Housing Private Limited

0.83

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

408

48. Transaction with Struck off Companies (contd.)
Rupees crores

Name of the Struck of Company

Receivables

Payables

Number of Shares
held by Struck off
Companies

Other
Outstanding
BalancesAssets

Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities

*

—

—

—

—

Arsh Buildwell Private Limited

*

—

—

—

—

Venhan Technologies Private Limited

Ashi Infraprojects And Associates Private Limited

0.18

—

—

—

—

Sambodhi Tech Solutions Private Limited

0.13

—

—

—

—

Czone Engineers Private Limited

0.05

—

—

—

—

M/S. Ashwa Arts Private Limited

0.01

—

—

—

—

Console Cargo Logistics Services (I) Private Limited

0.07

—

—

—

—

Zafcon Engineering Private Limited

0.04

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

Rama Tent House Private Limited

0.09

—

—

—

—

Millpond Human Resource Private Limited

0.06

—

—

—

—

Xperto Marketing Solution Private Limited

4 Square Fitness Private Limited

0.02

—

—

—

—

Parvathi Life Sciences (OPC) Private Limited

0.01

—

—

—

—

Shiridi Srisai Solutions Private Limited

0.06

—

—

—

—

*

—

—

—

—

0.08

—

—

—

—

Devbhumi Aviation Private Limited
Vh Square Healthcare Private Limited
Shree Bio Crop India Private Limited

*

Liance Consultant & Engineers Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Dreams Broking Private Limited

—

—

476

—

—

Unickon Fincap Private Limited

—

—

689

—

—

Efcee Sarovar Portico Div Leela Tradelink Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Xtechone Internet Solutions Private Limited

—

*

—

—

—

Note:
* denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.
The above information is provided on basis of reasonable diligence done to ascertain relevant companies that have been struck off on the website of the
Ministry of Company Affairs.
49. Previous year’s figures have been regrouped /reclassified where necessary.

In terms of our report attached.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited

Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Chartered Accountants
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
Firm’s Registration No : 101248W/W-100022
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Partner
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Membership No : 113156
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)
Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited

Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited

NBS International Limited

Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty.
Limited

Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited

Mahindra Europe S.r.l.

Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited

Mahindra North American Technical
Center, Inc.

Mahindra Automotive North America Inc.

Mahindra Vehicle Sales and Service Inc.

Automobili Pininfarina GmbH

Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc.

Gromax Agri Equipment Limited

Trringo.com Limited

Mahindra USA Inc.

Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L €

Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda

Erkunt Traktor Sanayii A.S. #

Erkunt Sanayi A.S. #

Sampo Rosenlew Oy

Swaraj Engines Limited

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

Name of Subsidiary

28/09/2022

29/09/2020

01/12/2017

01/12/2017

INR

EUR

TRY

TRY

BRL

27.46

54.30

0.33

1,778.44

729.34

1.00

89.64

4.28

4.28

16.13

4.54

12.15

4.74

6.47

188.40

98.38

98.66

82.19 1,821.39

1.00

1.00

82.19

89.64

82.19

1,597.35

530.29

23.98

330.05

26.80

181.71

65.58

13.81

(109.72)

(1,587.26)

(25.55)

(6.58)

(0.26)

(1,775.36)

(757.40)

(162.70)

(577.50)

58.48

2.15

158.23

11.52

(34.88)

(0.56)

115.52

536.13

402.11

467.51

758.94

302.68

1.74

1,825.63

2.16

124.44

90.84

192.63

1.27

1,452.86

150.77

810.34

77.22

365.02

254.55

77.67

1,976.17

1,095.10

Total
Assets

193.93

370.57

279.33

504.96

190.49

12.80

1,591.50

0.25

76.72

90.77

189.55

29.33

18.21

197.98

727.88

62.33

123.97

217.76

68.00

507.24

345.18

Total
Liabilities

26.13

31.10

7.29

65.86

—

—

—

—

—

—

0.33

—

1,268.35

—

—

—

160.61

—

—

280.35

68.49

Investments

1,433.78

463.40

1,101.68

1,009.50

478.33

—

3,662.76

*

197.98

0.21

75.44

0.86

81.92

270.54

1,823.12

111.10

348.50

287.09

401.42

6.19

1,465.55

Gross
Turnover ^

179.74

(61.16)

85.93

101.96

122.32

—

61.71

(0.19)

(2.29)

0.01

(294.06)

(17.98)

18.82

(69.23)

41.83

2.47

64.58

25.61

5.58

0.94

87.29

Profit/(Loss)
before Tax

46.13

—

9.23

(2.63)

32.12

—

21.17

—

0.01

0.01

1.95

—

—

—

11.42

0.63

17.75

7.82

—

1.50

18.48

Provision
for Tax

133.61

(61.16)

76.70

104.59

90.20

—

40.54

(0.19)

(2.30)

*

(296.01)

(17.98)

18.82

(69.23)

30.41

1.84

46.83

17.79

5.58

(0.56)

68.81

Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax

111.74

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

52.13%

100.00%

98.69%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

60.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

—
—

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

46.83

—

—

—

95.16

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

14/10/2016

MXN

USD

08/06/1994
08/08/2016

INR

INR

USD

EUR

USD

82.19

82.19

4.61

12.74

82.82

25.27

44.55

1,469.49

634.40

Reserves &
Surplus

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

23/05/2016

18/12/1999

15/01/2019

07/05/2018

06/06/2017

USD

USD

ZAR

89.64

1.00

55.23

1.00

1.00

1.00

Share
Capital

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

25/04/2017

18/12/2013

20/10/2004

EUR

INR

AUD

INR

INR

INR

Exchange
rate

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

31/05/2005

29/09/2008

23/09/2008

05/02/2001

25/10/2022

31/01/2008

Reporting
currency

Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ##

BOARD’S
REPORT

1

Sr.
No.

Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon

Rupees crores

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired

Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013] (contd.)

Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
Statement Containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries/associate companies /joint ventures as included in the Consolidated Financial Statements

FORM AOC-1

409
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

17/03/2023

Carnot Technologies Private Limited

M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited

Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services
Limited

Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited

Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited

Mahindra Manulife Investment
Management Private Limited

Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private
Limited

Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited

Mahindra Finance CSR foundation

Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited

Mahindra Infrastructure Developers
Limited

Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited

Knowledge Township Limited

Industrial Township (Maharashtra)
Limited

Anthurium Developers Limited

Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited

Mahindra Water Utilities Limited

Mahindra World City Developers Limited

Mahindra World City Jaipur Limited

Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited

Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited 22/12/2014

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

42

03/06/2008

26/08/2005

22/09/2004

27/07/2015

29/03/2013

02/06/2010

02/07/2008

16/08/2007

21/09/2005

14/12/2001

30/03/2007

02/04/2019

08/07/2021

25/04/2013

20/06/2013

09/04/2007

07/04/2004

30/09/1998

17/03/2022

Name of Subsidiary

Sr.
No.

The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

LKR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

Reporting
currency

Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013] (contd.)

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

0.25

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

Exchange
rate

34.24

10.28

Reserves &
Surplus

42.64

14.15

Total
Assets

8.14

3.70

Total
Liabilities

170.00

0.05

150.00

20.00

0.10

0.05

0.05

5.00

49.07

25.42

18.00

154.67

*

49.61

0.98

382.94

122.14

10.31

3.71

(33.26)

276.49

116.66

15.20

(2.77)

0.08

(2.30)

5.81

(10.04)

4.98

1,458.09

0.02

24.09

0.35

(166.92)

1,359.49

522.90

321.44

285.25

699.24

779.94

18.89

259.60

0.13

2.71

77.86

17.41

147.73

318.47

272.75

643.28

3.59

262.32

*

0.02

22.98

2.03

0.02

1,543.05

3,155.81
23.00

0.01

154.90

0.07

32.92

7,236.14

149.04

0.03

228.60

1.40

248.94

8,717.77

682.25

246.72 16,842.19 96,216.55 79,127.64

0.26

0.17

Share
Capital

56.06

23.82

—

—

81.40

102.00

—

13.20

—

—

—

17.07

0.08

762.64

—

11.92

1.27

97.21

340.95

149.50

205.62

53.89

250.13

177.40

22.74

7.56

0.01

0.03

—

2.54

13.23

628.12

0.20

50.03

0.81

44.12

1,349.80

426.51

9,988.62 11,056.09

—

—

Investments

Gross
Turnover ^

10.23

(14.88)

161.40

20.35

8.77

6.86

*

0.02

(0.05)

1.79

13.17

150.56

(0.01)

3.98

0.16

(30.86)

26.29

46.05

2,698.07

5.41

3.19

Profit/(Loss)
before Tax

3.30

—

36.36

(5.03)

2.25

1.73

—

0.01

—

0.14

0.32

(0.69)

—

1.72

0.02

—

4.54

11.61

713.75

2.29

(0.05)

Provision
for Tax

6.93

(14.88)

125.04

25.38

6.52

5.13

*

0.01

(0.05)

1.65

12.84

151.25

(0.01)

2.26

0.14

(30.86)

21.75

34.44

1,984.32

3.12

3.24

Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

35.63

—

—

—

—

—

3.61

741.32

—

—

Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon

30.77%

51.28%

37.95%

45.64%

50.77%

51.28%

51.28%

51.28%

51.28%

51.28%

51.28%

51.28%

52.24%

30.40%

51.00%

51.00%

51.73%

41.79%

52.24%

100.00%

73.00%

Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ##

Rupees crores

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

410

23/08/2022

Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited

Mahindra Knowledge Park Mohali Limited 07/05/2018

02/12/2022

Mahindra Homes Private Limited

Deep Mangal Developers Private Ltd

Moonshine Construction Private Ltd

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited

Mahindra Hotels and Residences India
Limited

Gables Promoters Private Limited

Heritage Bird (M) Sdn. Bhd.

Infinity Hospitality Group Company
Limited

MH Boutique Hospitality Limited

MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited

Covington S.a.r.l.

Guestline Hospitality Management and
Development Services Limited

Mahindra Holidays & Resorts
Harihareshwar Limited

Holiday Club Resort Oy

Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt 1
(formerly known as Supermarket Capri
Oy)

Ownership Services Sweden Ab

Are Villa 3 AB

Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre

Holiday Club Sport and Spahotels AB

Holiday Club Resort Rus LLC #

Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L.U.

43

44

45

46

47

48

49

50

51

52

53

54

55

56

57

58

59

60

61

62

63

64

65

02/09/2015

02/09/2015

01/12/2015

02/09/2015

26/01/2018

EUR

RUB

SEK

SEK

SEK

SEK

EUR

0.03
0.03

89.64

0.79

0.08

0.04

0.08

0.90

107.20

0.05

0.03

0.12

1.30

1.06

7.93

7.93

7.93

7.93

89.64

89.64

1.00

1.00

89.64

89.64

2.41

36.17

0.56

(0.01)

(4.55)

34.51

91.88

3.61

1.46

18.14

190.34

(0.01)

5.10

178.87

(71.52)

(4.72)

(32.06)

0.35

31.91

(1.41)

545.05

(0.33)

23.71

0.11

80.33

164.09

3.69

11.56

69.11

972.25

0.05

5.39

737.75

769.51

9.18

48.38

8.31

183.35

20.33

7,014.30

*

5.40

23.69

4.63

45.03

72.13

0.04

10.02

50.07

674.71

0.01

0.26

558.76

839.73

11.49

44.27

7.40

86.44

21.69

6,268.55

0.33

0.06

1.25

445.64

224.52

Total
Liabilities

23.20

—

—

48.22

—

—

—

23.86

—

—

608.51

207.81

9.16

—

—

—

—

649.68

—

*

—

—

3.04

Investments

—

2.85

130.25

18.86

—

—

7.34

1,067.88

—

0.09

2.10

13.19

—

6.80

1.34

23.06

—

1,305.56

—

*

—

28.85

16.10

Gross
Turnover ^

(0.01)

0.37

15.98

(3.64)

*

(0.01)

(1.08)

(50.83)

(0.01)

0.08

(11.55)

(10.36)

(0.24)

(0.88)

0.54

3.27

(1.18)

214.06

(0.01)

(0.25)

*

6.83

0.23

Profit/(Loss)
before Tax

*

0.10

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

0.01

0.05

—

—

—

0.17

—

—

55.48

—

—

—

1.02

(27.53)

Provision
for Tax

(0.01)

0.27

15.98

(3.64)

*

(0.01)

(1.08)

(50.83)

(0.01)

0.07

(11.60)

(10.36)

(0.24)

(0.88)

0.37

3.27

(1.18)

158.58

(0.01)

(0.25)

*

5.81

27.76

Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

66.10%

67.18%

67.18%

32.92%

49.71%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

51.28%

51.28%

23.67%

26.15%

37.63%

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

02/09/2015

02/09/2015

EUR

INR

INR

EUR

EUR

2.41

2.41

18.65

65.00

0.05

200.70

*

(1.08)

*

413.30

443.45

Total
Assets

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

02/09/2015

17/07/2014

11/07/2014

THB

THB

MYR

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

6.42

(1.25)

(32.44)

218.05

Reserves &
Surplus

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

02/11/2012

05/11/2012

03/03/2008

INR

INR

INR

INR

1.00

*

0.10

0.88

Share
Capital

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

24/08/2012

26/04/2007

28/03/2000

28/11/2017

INR

1.00

1.00

1.00

Exchange
rate

Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ##

BOARD’S
REPORT

28/11/2017

INR

INR

INR

Reporting
currency

Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon

Rupees crores

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

06/09/2017

30/03/2017

Name of Subsidiary

Sr.
No.

The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired

Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013] (contd.)

411
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing
S.L.U.

Holiday Club Canarias Resort
Management S.L.U.

Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club
S.L.U.

Classic Legends Private Limited

BSA Company Limited

The Birmingham Small Arms Company
Limited **

BSA Corporation Limited **

B.S.A. Motor Cycles Limited **

Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l. $

Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited

Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited

Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited

Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private
Limited

Mahindra HZPC Private Limited

Mahindra Fruits Private Limited

Bristlecone Limited

Bristlecone India Limited

Bristlecone Consulting Limited

Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn.Bhd

Bristlecone International AG

Bristlecone (UK) Limited

Bristlecone Inc.

Bristlecone Middle East DMCC

Bristlecone GmbH

67

68

69

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

80

81

82

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

Name of Subsidiary

66

Sr.
No.

EUR

AED

USD

GBP

CHF

MYR

CAD

INR

USD

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

EUR

GBP

GBP

GBP

GBP

INR

EUR

EUR

EUR

Reporting
currency

89.64

22.38

82.19

101.92

89.95

18.65

60.78

1.00

82.19

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

89.64

101.92

101.92

101.92

101.92

1.00

89.64

89.64

89.64

Exchange
rate

0.45

0.11

56.31

23.95

0.90

0.93

*

19.05

0.16

12.33

49.64

3.00

27.89

128.11

94.17

1,289.91

*

*

*

2.74

525.00

0.03

0.03

0.03

Share
Capital

49.75

9.19

58.39

(17.69)

19.73

0.92

3.16

105.26

58.29

(12.22)

(46.22)

(2.21)

135.52

(103.62)

(114.65)

(1,289.94)

—

—

—

26.98

(362.05)

14.61

66.57

(14.23)

Reserves &
Surplus

59.84

12.34

329.56

6.33

30.78

1.92

3.62

229.09

259.14

0.14

59.81

1.83

253.18

155.57

225.27

62.99

*

*

*

99.04

483.82

69.10

176.06

173.66

Total
Assets

9.64

3.04

214.86

0.07

10.15

0.07

0.46

104.78

200.69

0.03

56.39

1.04

89.77

131.08

245.75

63.02

—

—

—

69.32

320.87

54.46

109.46

187.86

Total
Liabilities

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

7.79

247.32

—

—

—

0.48

—

34.45

5.41

—

—

—

*

72.79

37.00

113.72

74.09

Investments

59.27

18.89

761.18

0.75

18.04

0.72

2.23

497.34

8.22

*

58.40

2.12

213.13

192.81

259.00

0.03

—

—

—

36.76

710.84

34.00

51.31

38.48

Gross
Turnover ^

1.95

0.23

30.07

0.17

0.79

0.01

0.38

45.04

(0.45)

(0.10)

1.04

(0.48)

(15.96)

(75.27)

(71.07)

(615.17)

—

—

—

(8.90)

(148.48)

4.11

5.87

(2.73)

Profit/(Loss)
before Tax

0.52

—

9.27

—

(0.01)

—

0.10

11.60

—

—

—

—

(3.72)

—

—

0.05

—

—

—

—

(0.07)

1.08

1.05

(1.14)

Provision
for Tax

1.43

0.23

20.80

0.17

0.80

0.01

0.28

33.44

(0.45)

(0.10)

1.04

(0.48)

(12.24)

(75.27)

(71.07)

(615.22)

—

—

—

(8.90)

(148.41)

3.03

4.83

(1.60)

Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon

97.19%

97.19%

97.19%

97.19%

97.19%

97.19%

97.19%

97.19%

97.19%

98.79%

59.22%

32.59%

54.31%

59.27%

98.79%

100.00%

60.00%

60.00%

60.00%

60.00%

60.00%

67.18%

67.18%

67.18%

Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ##

Rupees crores

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

09/12/2003

18/07/2016

17/05/2004

31/05/1999

21/06/2011

30/05/2007

01/06/2010

25/09/1995

17/05/2004

09/07/2014

25/04/2013

16/11/2018

08/09/2011

09/10/2018

16/08/2000

02/12/2014

11/09/2020

11/09/2020

11/09/2020

21/10/2016

18/10/2016

18/12/2018

02/09/2015

02/09/2015

The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired

Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013] (contd.)

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

412

16/12/2016

Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica
Limited **

Mahindra-BT Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited

Mahindra Accelo Limited (Formerly
known as Mahindra Intertrade Limited)

Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited

Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited **

Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited

Mahindra Middleeast Electrical Steel
Service Centre (FZC)

PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia

Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited

91

92

93

94

95

96

97

98

06/04/2020
08/10/2019

Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited

Mahindra Racing UK Limited

Mahindra Susten Private Limited

Mahindra Renewables Private Limited

Mahindra Teqo Private Limited

Neo Solren Private Limited

Marvel Solren Private Limited

Astra Solren Private Limited

Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private
Limited

Mega Suryaurja Private Limited

Martial Solren Private Limited **

Mahindra Solarize Private Limited

MSPL International DMCC ¥

Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited 29/08/2022

102

103

104

105

106

107

108

109

110

111

112

113

114

115

27/08/2020

INR

AED

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

60.00

1.00

22.38

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

101.92

(21.25)

9.98

25.44

(0.21)

(25.11)

4.86

(0.09)

0.01
35.39

65.16

15.05

87.96

26.08

71.43

25.95

112.13

636.23

12.56

(1,965.08)

(3,911.49)

173.25

8.65

9.52

8.89

27.82

9.32

0.10

321.52

390.92

0.20

89.64 1,965.38

3,619.01

2,705.37

(12.42)

33.91

69.40

(11.71)

109.80

805.64

11.11

0.33

123.18

*

1,358.15

84.19

399.54

132.34

305.24

101.35

2,727.83

2,732.00

116.67

0.38

1,653.50

2,878.89

61.35

80.66

92.56

329.98

6.91

337.89

1,422.80

181.09

0.82

1.34

—

82.93

0.08

1,284.34

59.62

302.69

78.44

224.49

75.30

2,294.18

1,704.85

103.91

0.08

1,945.98

0.27

22.60

62.55

54.13

192.08

18.12

211.55

600.56

0.48

—

0.49

Total
Liabilities

—

—

7.39

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

154.40

485.18

—

—

1,638.92

2,390.39

—

—

—

—

—

—

172.88

26.77

—

—

Investments

—

—

177.16

—

118.07

12.73

62.25

21.85

37.92

158.89

352.73

396.45

273.56

—

68.54

14.64

31.68

33.81

98.27

479.33

—

382.84

3,243.80

4.62

—

13.86

Gross
Turnover ^

(0.21)

*

1.79

(0.03)

(14.76)

2.09

15.93

3.06

2.97

10.67

49.36

54.85

30.30

(282.81)

(126.54)

517.98

(5.31)

(10.00)

8.01

39.45

(1.97)

23.85

150.34

4.24

—

0.28

Profit/(Loss)
before Tax

—

—

(0.39)

—

(3.71)

0.60

4.87

0.75

0.84

2.81

12.41

20.50

—

—

24.23

67.70

*

—

—

(0.21)

*

2.18

(0.03)

(11.05)

1.49

11.06

2.31

2.13

7.86

36.95

34.35

30.30

(282.81)

(150.77)

450.28

(5.31)

(10.00)

8.01

28.22

(1.97)
11.23

16.92
—

113.09

3.61

—

0.19

Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax

6.93

37.25

0.63

—

0.09

Provision
for Tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

1.60

4.25

—

5.08

45.36

—

—

—

100.00%

70.00%

100.00%

70.00%

70.00%

70.00%

70.00%

35.70%

70.00%

100.00%

70.00%

70.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

50.00%

99.98%

90.00%

75.50%

100.00%

61.00%

100.00%

57.00%

97.19%

97.19%

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

16/02/2017

03/12/2013

14/10/2015

10/10/2015

INR

INR

INR

INR

GBP

EUR

82.19

1.00

1.00

30.53

4.52

68.50

0.50

16.54

16.60

82.97

—

10.88

Total
Assets

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

01/07/2015

05/01/2016

28/07/2013

04/03/2011

04/03/2011

06/11/2018

USD

INR

INR

0.01

22.38

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

97.64

0.82

0.05

Reserves &
Surplus

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

24/12/2004

Mahindra Overseas Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited

101

02/11/2007

Mahindra Holdings Limited

IDR

AED

INR

INR

INR

INR

82.19

82.19

10.34

Share
Capital

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

100

08/08/2004

12/12/2013

11/07/2009

29/12/1993

28/04/1983

USD

USD

61.94

Exchange
rate

Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ##

BOARD’S
REPORT

24/12/2004

04/01/2022

SGD

Reporting
currency

Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon

Rupees crores

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

99

19/12/2018

Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited

90
21/02/2003

Name of Subsidiary

Sr.
No.

The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired

Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013] (contd.)

413
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

07/08/2014

05/12/2019

05/12/2019
05/12/2019

Mahindra Telephonics Integrated
Systems Limited

Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring
FZ-LLC

Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordon, LLC.

Mahindra First Choice Wheels Ltd

Fifth Gear Ventures Limited

Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions
Private Limited

Mahindra eMarket Limited

Mahindra Airways Limited

Mahindra Logistics Limited

2 x 2 Logistics Private Limited

Lords Freight (India) Private Limited

MLL Express Services Private Limited
(formerly known as Meru Travel
Solutions Private Limited)

MLL Mobility Private Limited (formerly
known as Meru Mobility Tech Private
Limited)

V-Link Automotive Services Private
Limited

V-Link Freight Services Private Limited

MLL Global Logistics Limited $$

V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited

Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited

Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited 27/01/2011

Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty
Limited

GA8 Airvan Pty Limited $

118

119

120

121

122

123

124

125

126

127

128

129

130

131

132

133

134

135

136

137

138

AUD

AUD

INR

INR

INR

GBP

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

INR

JOD

AED

INR

INR

INR

Reporting
currency

55.23

55.23

1.00

1.00

1.00

101.92

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

1.00

115.87

22.38

1.00

1.00

1.00

Exchange
rate

0.06

784.94

(0.06)

(753.14)

(297.26)

(538.09)

912.39
464.50

(13.46)

—

(0.14)

29.15

15.70

(78.68)

39.89

(12.27)

556.00

(7.08)

(1.78)

174.74

18.97

185.04

0.56

12.27

(50.60)

443.61

(0.04)

Reserves &
Surplus

0.01

—

1.00

0.01

0.46

97.14

2.36

9.01

71.98

67.75

0.80

9.78

0.31

87.84

0.05

22.38

50.78

16.72

0.05

Share
Capital

—

31.93

244.15

374.50

1.57

—

1.46

31.34

129.80

356.74

78.28

21.44

2,165.16

60.73

0.99

265.01

38.30

477.31

9.07

60.79

48.97

1,010.62

0.04

Total
Assets

—

0.13

76.91

0.20

15.02

—

0.60

2.18

113.64

338.28

36.03

24.70

1,537.18

0.06

1.97

80.49

19.02

204.43

8.46

26.14

48.79

550.29

0.03

Total
Liabilities

—

—

—

372.00

—

—

—

—

—

2.20

—

—

259.88

—

—

7.03

—

101.56

—

0.06

—

22.90

—

Investments

*

0.22

158.25

176.98

0.94

—

0.49

0.30

185.52

123.15

367.43

20.82

4,470.94

0.06

0.15

491.03

63.13

1,113.12

14.83

78.82

9.83

380.03

—

Gross
Turnover ^

*

(1.07)

(6.45)

176.07

0.05

—

(0.14)

*

(8.62)

(42.50)

13.38

(5.36)

80.44

(1.61)

(0.05)

33.83

(26.57)

(110.56)

0.11

3.47

(4.42)

80.99

(0.04)

Profit/(Loss)
before Tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

(10.71)

3.42

(1.49)

15.91

—

(0.04)

6.93

—

*

—

—

—

22.55

—

Provision
for Tax

*

(1.07)

(6.45)

176.07

0.05

—

(0.14)

*

(8.62)

(31.79)

9.96

(3.87)

64.53

(1.61)

(0.01)

26.90

(26.57)

(110.56)

0.11

3.47

(4.42)

58.44

(0.04)

Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

18.01

—

—

9.78

—

—

—

—

—

12.54

—

Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

58.09%

58.09%

58.09%

58.09%

58.09%

58.09%

57.54%

31.95%

58.09%

100.00%

83.47%

100.00%

55.18%

55.18%

88.00%

88.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ##

Rupees crores

Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

27/06/2010

08/04/2010

28/02/2008

05/12/2019

06/12/2022

09/09/2022

22/10/2012

12/12/2007

27/07/2016

11/08/2014

18/01/2011

17/01/2020

24/03/2008

31/03/2019

05/08/2010

22/04/2013

30/07/2012

Mahindra Defence Systems Limited

117

09/11/2022

Emergent Solren Private Limited

Name of Subsidiary

The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired

116

Sr.
No.

Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013] (contd.)

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.

414

Nomad TC Pty Limited $

Airvan 10 Pty Limited $

Gippsaero Pty Limited

Airvan Flight Services Pty Limited $

Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions
Limited

Mahindra Telecom Energy Management
Services Limited

Mahindra Construction Company Ltd

140

141

142

143

144

145

146

28/11/2017

25/06/2017

25/06/2017

27/06/2010

INR

INR

INR

AUD

AUD

AUD

AUD

AUD

1.00

1.00

1.00

55.23

55.23

55.23

55.23

55.23

Exchange
rate

2.40

69.44

30.00

0.06

671.52

0.06

0.13

0.06

Share
Capital

(24.00)

0.20

(14.10)

(0.06)

(671.33)

(0.06)

(0.13)

(0.06)

Reserves &
Surplus

1.50

70.01

22.04

—

9.35

—

—

—

Total
Assets

23.10

0.37

6.14

—

9.16

—

—

—

Total
Liabilities

—

62.21

—

—

—

—

—

—

Investments

1.24

2.81

7.19

*

7.71

*

*

*

Gross
Turnover ^

1.20

0.18

(3.68)

*

(6.44)

*

*

*

Profit/(Loss)
before Tax

0.33

0.16

(k)	Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta 1
(l)	Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Ranta 2
(m)	Kiinteistö Oy Tiurunniemi
(n)	Kiinteistö Oy Kylpyläntorni 1
(o)	Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts 2
(p)	Kiinteistö Oy Spa Lofts 3
(q)	Kiinteistö Oy Kuusamon Pulkkajärvi 1
(r)	Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt 1
(s)	Merakisan Private Limited
(t)	Mahindra Integrated Township Limited

(b)	Origin Direct Asia Ltd.

(c)	Origin Fruit Direct B.V.

(d)	Origin Fruit Services South America SpA

(e)	Origin Direct Asia (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd.

(f)	Kiinteistö Oy Himos Gardens

(g)	Kiinteistö Oy Vanha Ykköstii

(h)	Kiinteistö Oy Katinnurkka

(i)	Kiinteistö Oy Tenetinlahti

(j)	Kiinteistö Oy Mällösniemi

(ad)	HCR Management Oy

(ac)	Mahindra Bangladesh Private Limited

(ab)	PMTC Engineering SPA

(aa)	Peugeot Motocycles Italia S.p.A.

(ak)	SsangYong Australia Pty Limited

(aj)	SY Auto Capital Co., LTD

(ai)	Ssangyong European Parts Center B.V

(ah)	Ssangyong Motor Company

(ag)	Mahindra Namaste Limited

(af)	Mahindra Consulting Engineers Limited

STANDALONE
ACCOUNTS

(z)	Peugeot Motocycles Deutschland GmbH

(y)	Peugeot Motocycles S.A.S.

(x)	Mahindra West Africa Limited

(w)	Mahindra Electric Mobility Limited

(ae)	Mahindra Fresh Fruits Distribution Holding
Company (Europe) B.V.

65.27%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

100.00%

BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT

(v)	Mahindra Tractor Assembly, Inc.

(u)	Mahindra Residential Developers Limited

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE

(a)	OFD Holding B.V.

0.87

0.02

(3.68)

*

(6.44)

*

*

*

Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS

Names of subsidiaries which have ceased to exist during the year on account of Liquidation/ Sale/Merger through scheme of arrangement are as under :

—

—

—

—

—

—

Provision
for Tax

Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ##

BOARD’S
REPORT

27/06/2010

10/12/2015

27/06/2010

27/06/2010

Reporting
currency

Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon

Rupees crores

COMPANY
OVERVIEW

Notes
* denotes amounts less than Rs. 50,000.
^ Gross turnover includes revenue from operations and other income
** denotes companies yet to commence operations
# denotes companies where reporting period is different from 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023. The financial year for all other subsidiaries is 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2023
€ Under liquidation
¥ Under liquidation, financials are upto 18th January, 2023
$ Based on unaudited financial statements as audit is not required as per their local laws
$$ incorporated in current financial year and will prepare it’s first statutory accounts in next financial year
@ excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities/their holding companies but not allotted to employees
## There are no companies where voting power is different from ownership interests

GA200 Pty Limited $

Name of Subsidiary

139

Sr.
No.

The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired

Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section 2(87) of the Companies Act, 2013] (contd.)

415
CONSOLIDATED
ACCOUNTS

MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report 2022-23

416

Part “B” Details of Associates / Joint Ventures [as per Section 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013]
Rupees crores
Name of Associates /Joint Ventures

Audited
Balance
Sheet Date

Date of
Acquisition

No. of
Equity
shares held
††

Proportion
of
ownership
interest

Cost of
Net worth
Investments attributable to
Shareholding
as per latest
audited
Balance Sheet

Profit/(Loss) for the year
Considered in
Consolidation

Not
considered in
consolidation

Tech Mahindra Limited

31/03/2023

31/08/2012

24,82,20,799

28.21%

976.82

7,877.50

1,362.91

3,468.39

Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited

31/12/2022

01/07/2021

1,21,22,068

3.20%

306.28

163.15

(4.96)

(131.21)

Officemartindia.com Limited

31/03/2023

31/03/2002

7,49,997

50.00%

—

(0.12)

—

—

Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited

31/03/2023

01/04/2010

70,000

46.66%

1.73

8.41

0.58

0.67

Kota Farm Services Limited

31/03/2023

15/04/2011

3,10,000

47.81%

0.30

(0.15)

*

*

Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural
Machinery co., Ltd. §

01/10/2015

4

33.33%

191.59

74.05

2.73

5.47

P.F. holding BV $

27/05/2016

2,63,36,050

40.00%

254.05

109.93

(21.36)

(32.04)

Zoomcar Inc $ ≠

16/02/2018

1,78,14,456

3.28%

—

—

—

—

Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private
Limited

31/03/2023

28/03/2018

8,32,11,840

26.26%

218.51

137.12

(45.86)

(128.80)

Mahindra Ideal Lanka Private Limited

31/03/2023

31/05/2018

1,75,000

35.00%

6.79

3.22

(1.44)

(2.66)

Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India
Private Limited (formerly known as
Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private
Limited)

31/03/2023

21/06/2018

34,75,264

22.81%

145.13

15.87

(6.34)

(14.59)

ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited

06/07/2021

1,60,74,000

37.21%

16.07

13.80

(0.25)

(0.43)

Brainbees Solutions Private Limited

29/04/2022

5,33,34,835

12.42%

415.80

425.98

(57.92)

(408.41)

≠ Investment in Zoomcar Inc. is fully provided for impairment and hence loss for the period has not been considered in consolidation.
Notes:
There are no Associates or Joint ventures which are yet to commence operations.
*

denotes amount less than Rs. 50,000

†† Including equity/preferred shares to be issued on conversion of participating Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares
$

Based on unaudited financial statements as audit is not required as per their local laws

§	In addition to JPY750 million Common Stock (which represents 33.33% of the Common stock), the Company owns the entire JPY 2,250 million “Class A” shares

(shares with no voting rights); “Class A” shares have rights over dividend and liquidation on an equal basis with Common Stock.

For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - 00041197)
Vishakha N. Desai (DIN - 05292671)
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - 01186248)
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - 00005290)
Shikha Sharma (DIN - 00043265)
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - 00591503)
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - 07858587)
Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN - 02449088)
CP Gurnani (DIN - 00018234)

Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar

Chairman (DIN - 00004695)
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - 02719429)
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - 00046823)
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. 8666)

Mumbai, 26th May, 2023

“Dream about achieving
the impossible - because
impossible things do happen.”
KESHUB MAHINDRA
9 October 1923 - 12 April 2023

Registered Office:

MAHINDRA &
MAHINDRA LIMITED
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai - 400 001
www.mahindra.com

