Mahindra &
Mahindra un Ltd. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. Integrated Annual Report - Mahindra &
Mahindra un Ltd. untamed.
unleashed.
unstoppable. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CHAIRMAN’S
MESSAGE We are truly
Mahindra – Unlimited.
Dear Shareholders,
An oft-quoted line from Shakespeare says, “There
is a tide in the affairs of men / which when taken at
the flood, / leads on to fortune.” There are tides in
the affairs of nations and companies as well. It is
undoubtedly a good time to be an Indian company.
The interplay of geopolitics and economic linkages
in the post-COVID era has seen India's position
strengthen. A new multi-polar manufacturing world
is emerging, as nations and companies rush to
reconfigure their supply chains to be more resilient
and diversified. India has emerged as a key
beneficiary. India's emerging role as one of the
vital nodes in future-proofed supply chains across
industries opens the door for growth within India
and expansion beyond. Clearly, the tides of
opportunity are rising.
For private industry, particularly manufacturing,
this confluence of factors translates into an
excellent chance to be a serious player in this new,
multi-polar world. To continue the opening quote,
“…On such a full sea are we now afloat / and we
must take the current when it serves.” The question
is, are we ready to take this current? Do we have
the will, the grit, and the gumption to take the tide
at its flood? Domestically, the stars are in alignment.
India has been heavily investing in infrastructure
and logistics. India is the cheapest manufacturing
destination in the world. There is a good supply of
labour. The need for jobs for young people, our
demographic dividend, is high. Externally too,
conditions are working in our favour. It's time to
seize the day. How can we, in private industry, ensure that we ride
this upsurging tide? In the spirit of “ask not what
your country can do for you; ask what you can do
for your country”, I would argue that the most
important thing industry can do at this critical
juncture is to increase private investment. Private
capital investment is the key to capitalising on this
opportunity. It's a key driver of growth, jobs, and
demand. After the economic reforms of the 1990s,
it rose from around % to around % of GDP.
However, from - onwards, private
investment as a percentage of GDP has been
falling to a worrisome level. We need to remedy
that situation.
The problem is not one of resources—rather, it is
one of mindset. Particularly after COVID, Indian
companies have become increasingly risk averse,
sticking to the tried and true rather than blazing
new trails. To some extent, this is understandable.
But when opportunity beckons, when private
industry can make a significant difference, it is time
to set aside our fear of failure and take a leap of
faith and self-belief.
We, in the Mahindra Group, are ready to take the
current when it serves, but we also believe in
making our own favourable tides and currents. The
Mahindra Group has had an extremely successful
few years on the back of a slew of strong product
launches across our Auto Division and Farm
Division complimented by a turnaround in Mahindra
Finance and successful value creation within our
Growth Gems. The XUV 3XO has broken barriers
and created a new segment. The Scorpio-N has proved to be a blockbuster. The
Oja tractor is a path-breaking product in the global
tractor industry and promises to make its own
tidal waves. On the back of this rising tide, we are
stepping up our investments. We have already
announced an investment of INR , Crores
across our Auto, Farm and Services businesses
(excluding Tech Mahindra) in F25, F26 and F27.
These investments will, to a large extent, go
towards building capacity, with a pipeline of new models/facelifts in the next years. Mahindra
Finance's loan book crossed the threshold of one
lakh crores, increasing by % over the previous
year. The valuation of our Growth Gems increased
over 4x in the last years. The contribution of our
Services businesses (Mahindra Finance, Tech
Mahindra and growth gems) to M&M's net cash
generation was almost seven thousand crores
over the F22-F24 period.
The future is pregnant with potential. So, I find it
somewhat ironic that the law requires businesses
to use the suffix 'Ltd” (to convey limited liability,
of course). That is a correct description of our legal
position, but we in M&M do not see ourselves as
limited in any other fashion. We know that there
will always be challenges; there will always be ups
and downs. But we also know that our resilience is
unquestionable, our imagination is unfettered, and
our aspirations are unconstrained. We are truly
Mahindra – Unlimited.
Sincerely, Anand G. Mahindra
Chairman MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MD & CEO’S
MESSAGE We are grateful for our
shareholders' trust in our
journey, a crucial part of
our 'infinity loop' of growth. Dear Shareholders,
Former President Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam, affectionately
referred to as the Missile Man of India, left an
enduring legacy on the world with his profound
wisdom. His memorable quote, "If you want to shine
like a sun, first burn like a sun," encapsulates the
essence of perseverance. Just as the sun persists
through clouded skies, India has stood resilient
amidst tumult, global conflicts, and economic
adversities. Mirroring the sun's resilience, India has
achieved an impressive growth rate of over % in
the past fiscal year. Looking ahead, the horizon holds promising
opportunities. The Group is currently engaged in out of high-potential sectors that are propelling
India's economic growth. We are excited about
shaping the electric SUV category with sustainable
and sophisticated products that are designed to
delight customers. Our Farm business is positioned
well for international growth. Both Mahindra Finance
and Tech Mahindra will unlock their full potential.
And, our growth gems are targeting an additional
5x growth over the next - years. Much like India's achievements, at the Mahindra
Group, we have consistently pursued innovation
to unlock new opportunities, represented by the
“infinity loop” on the cover of our annual report.
In F24, the Group achieved its highest-ever profit
with our businesses firing on all cylinders. We recognise that private capital investment plays
a crucial role in maximising the opportunities in India.
By outlining a capex plan of INR , Crores for
the next three years, we remain committed to our
proven strategy of prudent capital allocation. The
Group draws confidence from the cash generation
across our businesses, our low debt levels, and a