robust balance sheet. Simultaneously, we are
committed to investing in 'Tech and Talent,' … these
are essential for innovation and nurturing a talented
workforce, positioning us as an employer of choice. Reflecting on F24, the automotive business
sustained its growth trajectory and retained its
position as the # SUV player by revenue. Our Farm
business showed resilience in a year marked by a
monsoon shortfall, gaining 40bps market share in a
declining industry. Mahindra Finance made
significant progress in its turnaround plan, reducing
delinquencies to under %, increasing assets by
% to over INR ,, Crores and revamping
processes leveraging technology and data. The
turnaround at Tech Mahindra has commenced, with
a sharp focus on growth and margins. Our Growth
Gems have enhanced valuation by 4x over the past years to $. billion. We remain steadfast in our commitment to our North
Star, 'RISE'. Our credo of driving positive change in our
communities ensures that sustainability is integral to
our business operations, steering us towards a planetpositive future. We have achieved substantial progress
to make our operations greener across energy, water,
and waste. M&M's share of renewable energy
increased to % in F24. We have doubled the
energy efficiency of our operations since F09, and
now use half the energy to manufacture each vehicle. M&M maintained its water positivity status and now
has over % 'zero waste to landfill' locations. Our
tree plantation program, Hariyali, has enriched the
landscape with nearly million trees to date.
Recognising the immense potential of women in India,
we have taken significant steps towards inclusivity
and empowerment. A significant step that has set a
new industry benchmark is the introduction of a
visionary year maternity policy aimed at creating a
more equitable and supportive work environment for
women. Furthermore, since inception through Nanhi
Kali, we have educated around ,, young girls
from disadvantaged homes and skilled around
,, women to enable them to become job
ready through our women's empowerment program.
Our actions are governed by robust corporate
governance standards that uphold integrity in all
facets of our operations, ensuring transparency and
accountability.
We are grateful for our shareholders' trust in our
journey, a crucial part of our 'infinity loop' of growth.
We recently surpassed the INR trillion M-Cap level
on the bourses. M&M shares soared by over %
outpacing the nearly % appreciation seen in
broader market indices. Your belief in our vision and
active contribution to our progress are key in this
continuous cycle of success. Together, we can unlock
infinite possibilities, each one a precious gem waiting
to be discovered.
Warm regards, Dr. Anish Shah
Managing Director and CEO MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CONTENTS COMPANY
OVERVIEW RISE TO
CREATE VALUE RISE TO BE
FUTURE READY RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD CORPORATE
INFORMATION STATUTORY
REPORTS FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS ANNOUNCEMENT HOW TO READ THE REPORT We embarked on our journey of Integrated
Reporting in F17 in keeping with our commitment
towards transparency and the highest standards of
corporate governance. The following year, to
present our shareholders with a more holistic view
of how we create and sustain long-term value, we
included key elements of the Integrated Report
(IR) along with the Annual Report. While staying
true to the principles of the International
Integrated Reporting Council's framework that was
incorporated in the past, our Integrated Report
structure has also evolved to create a more readerfriendly experience. Integrated Report <IR> Scope of the Report Businesses exist to create value - not only for the
shareholders, but also for their diverse
stakeholders. A business's ability to sustain value
over the long-term depends on how it manages,
leverages, and integrates its tangible and intangible
resources - from financial capital, plant &
machinery, employees, communities, government
licenses and natural resources; to corporate
governance practices, intellectual knowhow and
the social license to operate. The reporting period of Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited apropos this Integrated Report is April, to March, . An Integrated Report takes corporate reporting
beyond just discussing the financial resources,
since any value creation activity requires other
resources like people, natural resources and
business relationships. This report will discuss how
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (M&M Ltd.) creates value
by leveraging the interlinkages between these
interdependent resources. Where necessary, we
have explained the concept using charts and
infographics. Some IR related data might be
management estimates and could be updated in
subsequent publications, like the Mahindra
Sustainability Report. For any other information please visit
www.mahindra.com We use an easy-to-understand diagram to depict
inputs, outputs, and the resulting outcomes, with
respect to capital, that are measured by KPIs.
The structure of this report remains true to the
principles of integrated reporting and seeks to
create a more lucid flow of information for a crisp
and coherent disclosure. The detailed Statutory
Statements and Financial Reports are also part of
this document and are in line with the
requirements of the Companies Act, (including the Rules made thereunder), Indian
Accounting Standards, Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, and the
applicable Secretarial Standards.
Please note that certain statements in this report
with regard to our future growth prospects are
forward-looking statements, which involve a
number of risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those in
such forward-looking statements.
Throughout the report, the terms 'Mahindra',
'Mahindra & Mahindra', 'M&M', and 'M&M Ltd.' have
been used interchangeably to refer to Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited. This Integrated Report provides an overview
of the operations and business development
activities of the Company. It is also aligned to
the nine principles of the National Voluntary
Guidelines on Social, Environmental and
Economic Responsibilities of Business released
by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
The scope of this Report is related to Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited, consisting of the Automotive
Sector, Farm Equipment Sector, Spares Business
Unit, Mahindra Research Valley, Two-Wheeler
Division, Construction Equipment Division and
Powertrain Business Division.
We have represented data related to other group
businesses and Companies, wherever required, to
provide a holistic view of the Company's
performance and presence.
This Integrated Report
provides a cohesive view of
our performance and ability
to create value consistently
through six capitals – Financial,
Manufactured, Intellectual,
Human, Social & Relationship,
and Natural. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - PERFORMANCE
HIGHLIGHTS FINANCIAL – F24 M&M STANDALONE M&M CONSOLIDATED INCOME FROM OPERATIONS INCOME FROM OPERATIONS J Crore ,, MAHINDRA
TRACTORS Lakh Tractor Milestone MAHINDRA
LIFESPACES
A total development footprint
of over million sq. . MAHINDRA
SUSTEN
Co-sponsor of India’s
largest RE Invit J Crore % increase
compared to F23 PAT ,, % increase
compared to F23 PAT J Crore , XUV700
Fastest Mahindra vehicle to achieve
.5L+ vehicles within months of launch J Crore % increase
compared to F23 , % increase
compared to F23 NON-FINANCIAL – F24 VOLUMES MARKET SHARE AUTOMOTIVE TRACTOR SUV ,, units ,, units (Includes domestic
sales and exports)* (Includes domestic sales and
exports; includes Mahindra,
Swaraj & Trakstar Brands) .% increase in
total
automotive
volume LCVS
(<.5T*) FARM
EQUIPMENT ELECTRIC WHEELERS market share market
share market
share market
share .% % .% .% bps bps bps - bps Revenue -.% decrease in
total tractor
volume * Includes LMM * With Bolero Max Pickup 2T classified under LCV -.5T MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW COMPANY
OVERVIEW
MAHINDRA &
MAHINDRA LTD. THE MAHINDRA
GROUP
The Mahindra Group began its journey eight decades
ago in steel trading. Today, it is a large multi-industry
conglomerate with a leading position in many
sectors in India. The Company is broadly organised
into three major segments: Auto, Farm and Services.
As a leading player in India's auto industry, Mahindra
is known for its authentic SUVs and rugged light
commercial vehicles. The Group is rapidly moving
towards an electrified future with its leadership in
EV three-wheelers and upcoming EV SUV launches.
In the Farm segment, Mahindra is the leader in
tractors and is quickly emerging as a significant
force in farm machinery. What is remarkable is the
rapid growth of the Services segment, which
includes a diverse range of businesses such as
financial services, hospitality, information technology,
and residential and commercial real estate.
The Group has a strong focus on purpose, believing
in its crucial role in leading ESG initiatives globally,
promoting diversity, and setting benchmarks in
governance. The Mahindra Group has been a pioneer
in all these areas. Central to this focus is the Group's
philosophy of RISE, which is about positively
impacting the communities it touches.
The future of the Mahindra Group will be driven by
its focus on delivering scale in each of its businesses.
The Group believes this is a pivotal moment in the
nation's history, and it is well-positioned to be a
brand of choice both in India and globally. Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. is the flagship Company of
the Mahindra Group. Our core business is mobility
products and farm solutions. Since assembling our
first vehicle in , we have grown rapidly. Today,
we offer a wide range of products and solutions
ranging from SUVs, pickups, commercial vehicles and
tractors, to electric vehicles, two-wheelers, gensets
and construction equipment. Starting this year,
Mahindra Electric
Automobile Limited will
roll out its first set of
Born EV automobiles. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW GROUP
SNAPSHOT +
INDUSTRIES
Mahindra Group's operations are in the key industries that form the foundation of every modern economy. The
industries, where we are transforming lives and shaping the modern world through our presence have been
outlined below: World's Largest + World's 1st years of excellence countries 260k+
no. of employees tractor Company by volume all-electric hyper car – Pininfarina Battista Auto SUVs &
LCVs Farm Last Mile
Mobility Iconic
Motorcycles Tractors &
Agri Services Trucks &
Buses Farm
Machinery India's No. SUV Company by Revenue Market Share Services $23B+
Group turnover India's No.
electric -wheeler Company Financial Hospitality Logistics Renewable
Energy Technology Real
Estate Auto
Components Auto
Recycling Pre-Owned
Cars Aerospace &
Defence India's Largest
sub .5T Light Commercial Vehicles Company India's No. financial services provider in rural and semi-urban markets Leading
global IT services provider PURPOSE
Drive positive change in the lives of our communities.
Only when we enable others to rise will we rise.
#TogetherWeRise For more information
about our Core Values,
please refer to our
corporate website:
https://www.mahindra.com/
about-mahindra-company RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY RISE TO
CREATE VALUE Climate Change Customer Focused Entrepreneurship Inclusion Technology Scale Ethics Innovation Impact CORE VALUES
Professionalism | Good Corporate Citizenship | Customer First | Quality Focus | Dignity of the Individual MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW AWARDS AND
ACCOLADES Mahindra Lifespace
Developers Ÿ Only Indian company to receive a Double A rating
by CDP for Climate Change and Water Security
(). Mahindra & Mahindra Ÿ Conferred Global Sector Leader in Development Recognised as
the Fastest Growing
Brand Globally by
Brand Finance. Featured in the 'Leadership' category for the third
consecutive year and ranked amongst the top six for
Leadership in Corporate Governance by the Institutional
Investor Advisory Services India Limited (IiAS). Benchmark category by GRESB.
Farm Sector Ÿ Received the Green Champion Award by Indian Tractor Manufacturer of the Year Award at
the ITOTY Awards . Green Building Council and identified as the
'Organisation leading the Net Zero Building
Movement in India'. Ÿ NOVO – won the Best Tractor Between Ÿ Mahindra World City Chennai (O&M) won the Ÿ Mahindra Tractors Tough Hardum won the - HP at the ITOTY Awards . Ÿ Swaraj Target won the Indian Tractor of award for Best Maintained Structures /
Retrofitting and Rehabilitation. the Year in - HP category.
Mahindra Logistics
Energy Sector
CORPORATE AWARDS
Auto Sector Ÿ Named Manufacturer of the Year by Autocar
India, Motorscribe, Jagran Hi-tech, Car India
Magazine and Motorbeam. Ÿ Mahindra Thar RWD was also awarded Editor's
Choice Lifestyle Vehicle of the Year at the Top
Gear India Awards and Variant of the Year at the
APB Live Auto Awards. Ÿ The XUV400 was declared the Mid-Size Electric
SUV of the Year by Car India, EV Car of the Year
by ACKO Drive and Electric Car of the Year by
car&bike. Ÿ Mahindra Susten's CoE Training featured in the Ÿ Received CII Scale Awards Overall
Excellence Award in Logistics & Supply Chain. United Nations Global Compact Report. Tech Mahindra Ÿ Recognised under the Rising Star category at
the BRICS Industry Innovation Contest . Ÿ Recognised amongst the Best Organisations for
Women by ET NOW. Ÿ Named amongst the Iconic Brands at ET Iconic
Brands Event. Ÿ Mahindra Bolero MaXX Pik-Up HD won the Pick
Up of the Year and CV of the Year at the Apollo
CV Awards. Ÿ Mahindra Supro Profit Truck CNG Duo won SCV
of the Year at Apollo CV Awards. Ÿ Mahindra CRUZIO was named School Bus of the
Year by the Apollo CV Award. Mahindra Finance Ÿ Mahindra Truck and Bus Division won the Aegis Ÿ Recognised as the Best NBFC in Talent & Graham Bell Award – iMAXX – Technology
innovation award by Aegis Graham Bell Award
(Supported by Ministry of IT & Innovation). Ÿ Won CRIF Data Excellence Award in the Ÿ Treo Plus was named EV Of the Year – Wheeler Ÿ Recognised amongst India's Best by the Apollo CV Award. Workforce by Business Today, a first for a NBFS.
Commercial (NBFC) category.
Companies To Work and India's Best Workplace
for Millennials by Great Place to Work, India. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW THE BOARD
OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY
AWARDS Ÿ Swaraj 744XT received the Most Sustainable Additions to the Board of
Directors with e ect from May, Tractor of the Year at the ITOTY Awards. Ÿ Mahindra Auto Division received KPMG's ESG
Excellence Awards. Ÿ Four Club Mahindra resorts in Ooty; Udaipur;
Kumbalgarh and Madikeri received the Platinum
Certified Green Resorts by CII Indian Green
Building Certification. Ÿ Club Mahindra Assonora, Goa ranked among the
Top for Socially Responsible Hotel of the Year
by Hotelier's India. CSR
AWARDS MR. ANAND G.
MAHINDRA DR. ANISH
SHAH MR. RAJESH
JEJURIKAR MR. SAT PAL
BHANOO Chairman Managing Director and CEO Executive Director
and CEO (Auto & Farm Sector) Non-Executive and
Non-Independent Director MR. VIKRAM
SINGH MEHTA MR. T. N.
MANOHARAN MS. SHIKHA
SHARMA MR. RANJAN
PANT Lead Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Non-Executive and
Non-Independent Director MR. HAIGREVE
KHAITAN MS. NISABA
GODREJ MR. MUTHIAH
MURUGAPPAN MS. PADMASREE
WARRIOR Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Ÿ Swaraj Tractors' Project Pani initiative received
the National Awards for Excellence in CSR &
Sustainability under the category Best CSR
Impact Initiative by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs. Ÿ Mahindra Logistics Limited won the Best Skill
Development Programme Initiative of the Year (Corporate) at the Indian CSR Awards . Ÿ Received Brandon Hall Group Gold Award in the
Best Initiative for Philanthropy and Corporate
Giving category. Ÿ Best CSR Initiative at ITOTY Awards for Project
Hunnar. Ÿ CSR Times Award by Ministry of State Health
& Family Welfare Govt of India for Project Prerna. Ÿ Women Empowerment Award at the Global CSR
Leadership Awards
As on May, . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW GROUP
EXECUTIVE BOARD MR. ANAND
G. MAHINDRA Chairman MR. RAJESH
JEJURIKAR DR. ANISH
SHAH Managing Director and CEO MS. ABANTI
SANKARANARAYANAN MR. MOHIT
JOSHI MD & CEO,
Tech Mahindra MR. NAVEEN
RAJU Executive Director
and CEO (Auto & Farm Sector) EVP, Group Public A airs EVP, Group Legal MR. AMARJYOTI
BARUA MR. AMIT
KUMAR SINHA MR. R.
VELUSAMY Group Strategy MD & CEO,
Mahindra Lifespaces Group CFO President, Automotive
Technology & Product
Development MR. MOHIT
KAPOOR EVP, Group
Technology MR. PUNEET
RENJHEN EVP, Group Partnerships
& Alliances MR. RAMPRAVEEN
SWAMINATHAN MD & CEO,
Mahindra Logistics From May, MS. ASHA
KHARGA MR. HEMANT
SIKKA MR. RAUL
REBELLO EVP, Group Customer
& Brand President, Farm Sector MD & CEO,
Mahindra Finance MR. LAKSHMANAN
CHIDAMBARAM President - Tech Mahindra
Americas MR. MANOJ
BHAT Group CFO
MD & CEO,
Mahindra Holidays
From ay, MR. VEEJAY
RAM NAKRA President,
Auto sector MR. RUZBEH
IRANI President,
Group HR MR. VINOD
SAHAY President, Aerospace &
Defence; Chief Purchase
O cer, Auto & Farm
Sectors MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW GLOBAL
FOOTPRINT THE GROUP HAS
BUSINESS PRESENCE
IN + COUNTRIES OUR R&D FACILITIES
ARE SET UP IN CENTRES
ACROSS COUNTRIES India, Finland, Italy,
Japan, Turkey, UK, USA UK MANUFACTURING
FACILITIES AROUND
THE WORLD USA Global Design Centre with
M.A.D.E., Electric Racing
Technology with Mahindra
Racing & Two-Wheeler
Technology with BSA FINLAND
Harvester
Technology with
Sampo-Rosenlew TURKEY
Farm Mechanisation
Technology with Erkunt Automotive & EV
Technologies with
MRV, Detroit INDIA ALGERIA AUSTRALIA BENIN BRAZIL FINLAND INDONESIA JAPAN KENYA MALI NIGERIA JAPAN
Rice Value Chain &
Tractor Technologies
with Mitsubishi SOUTH AFRICA SRI LANKA TUNISIA TURKEY UAE INDIA USA
ITALY
MRV - Mahindra Research Valley, Chennai & Detroit
MSPT - Mahindra SUV Proving Track, Chennai
MIDS - Mahindra India Design Studio, Mumbai
M.A.D.E. - Mahindra Advanced Design Europe
SDVC - So ware Deﬁned Vehicle Centre, Coimbatore Business presence
and R&D facilities Automotive Advanced EV
Technologies with
Pininfarina Business
presence Tractors & Farm Machinery Two-wheelers Others Automotive, Farm, Two-Wheeler
Engineering & Design, Connected
Cars & Electric Vehicle Technology,
Genset & Agri, Digitisation, AI, IOT
with MRV-led R&D centres, 4X4
COE with MSPT, Design studio MIDS
& SDVC. Map not to scale. For illustrative purposes only. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW MANUFACTURING
PLANTS IN INDIA MANUFACTURING
CAPABILITIES As on March , property, plant and equipment (including capital work-in-progress) at M&M Ltd. stood at
INR , crore. We incurred a net capital expenditure of INR , crore in F24, and the major focus was on
new product development. Integrating Industry . principles and technologies deeper into manufacturing operations is crucial for scaling
up operations even more efficiently and effectively. It empowers us to optimise processes and improve quality,
enabling us to adapt quickly to changing market conditions. As leaders in the Industry . revolution, we are
steadfast in our pursuit of digital transformation. MANUFACTURING
PLANTS ACROSS
THE COUNTRY
(of which are
of AS & FES) AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
SALES VOLUME (UNITS) FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
SALES VOLUME (UNITS) ,, ,, PUNJAB DELHI NCR GUWAHATI MOHALI,
CHAPPERCHIRI,
SIALBA MAJRI HARIDWAR Swaraj Divison RAJKOT GREATER NOIDA Automotive
Sector
Mahindra is committed to innovate in the EV space
and scale up operations significantly. We have
implemented what we envisaged as the capabilities
on our Born Electric (BE) facilities and built up a
factory to propel the BE range of vehicles. A stateof-the-art battery manufacturing facility is also
getting ready comprising the latest technology in
manufacturing domain for battery manufacturing. We leverage advanced
digital tech like Artificial
Intelligence and Machine
Learning to optimise
processes, ensuring
quality and agility to meet
the market demands and
bring new products that
exceed our customer
expectations. INDORE JAIPUR Digital Manufacturing Ÿ The creation of the Intershop conveyor DES VADODARA RUDRAPUR Gromax ANKLESHWAR IGATPURI Ÿ Created 3D model for designing the production NAGPUR KANDIVALI HYDERABAD CHAKAN PUNE ZAHEERABAD MAHARASHTRA TELANGANA BHOPAL AHMEDABAD PITHAMPUR NASHIK Manufacturing plants include M&M Ltd.,
Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited, Mahindra EPC
Irrigation Limited, Mahindra HZPC Pvt. Ltd.,
Mahindra Defence Systems Limited, Mahindra
Aerostructures Pvt. Ltd., Mahindra Accelo (Mahindra
Accelo Ltd., Mahindra Steel Service Centre Ltd.,
Mahindra Auto Steel Pvt. Ltd., Mahindra MSTC
Recycling Pvt. Ltd.), Gromax Agri Equipment Ltd. BENGALURU CHENNAI M&M Manufacturing Plants Tractors
& Farm
Machinery Farm
Machinery line layout and validating equipment placement
and functionality before actual implementation or
construction. This approach allows for potential
issues to be identified and addressed early in the
process, minimising risks and optimising efficiency
during the implementation phase. Sustainable Technologies
AI-Augmented Digital
Twin Project The project aims to enhance productivity within the
Chakan plant, expedite risk assessment processes,
and enable real-time monitoring of operations,
among other advantages. These improvements will
lead to increased efficiency, reduced downtime, and
provide better decision-making capabilities. SUPA Automotive model and what-if scenarios analysis for Nashik
helped optimise the efficiency of hanger
utilisation on the production line, achieving a
significant reduction of % in number of
hangers and associated cost savings. TwoWheelers Electric
Vehicles Aero &
Defence Accelo Agri - Map not to scale. For illustrative purposes only. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW Celebrating Years of Swaraj TTAT Project – Improving
Efﬁciency through Enhanced
Truck Management Swaraj Tractors Farm Equipment
Sector The TTAT (Total Turnaround Time) project involves
the deployment of an advanced application in the
production environment to alleviate congestion
within the plant and streamline the management of
inbound trucks, leading to improved operational
efficiency. TTAT is capable of handling up to ,
trucks daily at the Chakan plant in the future. Mahindra's aim is to enhance farm productivity and
thereby rural prosperity. In F24, FES production saw
decrease this year. Domestic tractor sales stood at
,, and the tractor exports stood at ,.
The forecast of a normal South-West monsoon this
year is expected to further boost tractor demand in
the coming months, while the government's
announcement of increased advance estimate of
horticulture production and Rabi wheat output
higher than last year is expected to bring positive
sentiments among farmers. Machine Learning Based
Real-Time Inline Spot-Welding
Monitoring The project involves the use of machine learning
techniques to monitor spot-welding processes in
real-time to reduce the cost associated with quality
issues. This includes reducing defects, rework, scrap,
or other quality-related expenses by identifying and
addressing issues promptly during the
manufacturing process. Manufacturing
Milestones – Auto
Chakan Plant
Chakan Plant Crossed highest ever . Lakh Vehicles in F24, % increment over F23 Cumulative vehicle production crossed million
since inception Swaraj Tractors, a part of the Mahindra group
unveiled limited-edition tractors, to mark the brand's
Golden Jubilee. Limited-edition variants of the
Swaraj FE and Swaraj FE tractors were
showcased at a ceremony commemorating Swaraj
Tractors' anniversary. 40th Lakh Tractor
Milestone
Mahindra Tractors
Mahindra Tractors has achieved a milestone by
selling the brand’s Lakh tractor inclusive of
exports in March . The Mahindra Yuvo Tech
Plus, based on Mahindra's next-generation Yuvo
tractor platform, marks this milestone, having
rolled-out from Mahindra's Zaheerabad facility, the
youngest tractor facility and a global production
hub for Mahindra Tractors. Nashik Plant
Crossed Highest ever Production - . Lakh Vehicles in F24, % increment over F23 Haridwar Plant
Crossed Lakh
Vehicles milestone since inception
Gen AI-Based
Why-Why Sheet Gen AI-Based project aims to streamline
troubleshooting and problem-solving activities by
using the chatbot to generate why-why sheets and
assist with maintenance processes at EPT, Chakan.
This ultimately reduces the time required to address
maintenance issues. Driving
Positive Change
In the Society
During Swaraj Tractors' golden jubilee
celebrations, a CSR program 'Skilling '
was also announced to empower women and
specially-abled individuals through
vocational training in agriculture and other
trades. The skilling program is aligned with
Mahindra Group's ethos of 'Together We Rise'
and FES's mission to 'transform farming and
enrich lives'. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - COMPANY
OVERVIEW RISE TO
CREATE VALUE Other Key Initiatives Ÿ AI-based Analytics for Decision Making
Leveraging machine data for informed
decision-making. Ÿ Cobot/Robot Applications
Integrating collaborative robots and robotic
applications for enhanced efficiency. Ÿ Automation & No Fault Forward GROUP
STRATEGIC
OVERVIEW Increasing automation and implementing
measures for defect-free product manufacturing. Ÿ Components Genealogy/Traceability
Doubling the traceability of critical components
across all factories, connecting + vendor parts. Ÿ QR Code on Components
Ensuring the right part fitments in the factory
through QR codes on components. Ÿ Digital Platform for APQP
Utilising digital platforms for Advanced Product
Quality Planning to expedite product lifecycle
management. Ÿ Supply Chain Control Tower
Implementing a control tower for the supply
chain to optimise operations and improve
productivity. Ÿ Digital Tractor Stockyard Management
Managing a diverse inventory of + tractor
varieties across multiple locations in India. Manufacturing
Milestones – FES
OJA Production Ramp-Up
OJA is a specialised tractor family having applications
in horticulture and also in paddy cultivation. Achieving
rapid production ramp-up of OJA tractors empowers
Mahindra to address % of the global tractor
industry, while opening new markets like Europe and
Asean. Tractor Production
Milestones
Nagpur . million
Rudrapur As one of India's most trusted brands over past years, the Mahindra Group has consistently
outperformed expectations, earning its place as the
best-performing stock in India's NIFTY Index over
the last years. In the last four years alone,
market capitalisation across the group companies
has increased sevenfold, driven by a sharp focus on
both fiscal discipline and strong growth.
We maintain our steadfast
commitment to delivering %-%
%
EPS growth and
ROE. ,
Rajkot 1st in last years , Company TSR% Ranking Mahindra & Mahindra Limited % Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited % Bajaj Holdings & Investment Limited % Britannia Industries Limited % ABB India Limited % Awards Ÿ Platinum Award of Industry .
to Rudrapur team by CII Ÿ Tractor Manufacturer of the Year
by CEAT Tyres Ÿ National Awards for Manufacturing
Competitiveness to Nagpur team by IRIM Ÿ Excellence Award to Zaheerabad team
by FTCCI (Ministry of Commerce) Ÿ Operation Excellence Award
to Nagpur team by Imexi Note: Govt. undertakings have been excluded from the ranking. Base year is March, , same as considered for last year rankings. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE As India progresses towards achieving its goal of becoming a $ trillion economy by , Mahindra Group
finds itself favourably positioned. We have meticulously built our portfolio to be in sectors that will contribute
to over % of India's growth over the next decade. We believe we have a clear right to win in these sectors
and we are well positioned with companies that are either leaders in their segments or are positioned well for
exponential growth. We play in % of
Indian GDP growth Sectors mapped to macrotrends Sector contribution to GDP growth ($ Bn) CONSUMER LIFESTYLE AND E-COMMERCE AGRICULTURE SOLUTIONS MANUFACTURING AND CAPITAL GOODS FINANCIAL SERVICES LOGISTICS AND MOBILITY GREEN ENERGY TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS HEALTH AND WELLNESS INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
(Construction, Utilities, etc.) OTHERS (Information & Communication, Education, etc.) Note: Others ( incremental) include Education ($ Bn), Extraction ($ Bn), Telecommunications ($ Bn),
Publishing and Broadcasting Activities ($ Bn) | Source: Oxford Economics, S&P Global , , , (Incremental) Existing presence of Mahindra Group , MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE FARM MAHINDRA GROUP STRATEGY
F24-: DELIVERING SCALE
As we step into the future, the group believes that our presence in these sectors must be at scale.
We have embarked on a journey to "Deliver Scale" in each of our businesses. We look at the group companies
in buckets on this journey to Deliver Scale: SUVs LCVs Strategic Imperatives
The Auto segment aims to deliver significant scale
through actions focused on:
ICE SUV Leadership Continue to fortify leadership
in ICE SUV segment with robust brands like Scorpio,
Bolero, XUV700, XUV 3XO and Thar.
Product Launches Committed to product
launches by across ICE, BEVs and LCVs.
E-SUVs Based on our in-house developed INGLO
platform create a new category of e-SUV. Capitalise on
Market Leadership Maintain LCV Leadership With continuous
innovation and product enhancements.
Scaling International Operations Scale
international operations multi fold. Unlock
Full Potential Strengthening Brand and Customer Obsession
Build a legacy of SUV leadership and customercentric innovations.
Key Highlights 5X Challenge
for Growth Gems Mahindra, with its core brands Mahindra and Swaraj,
continues to lead the industry, maintaining its market
leadership. New product launches combined with
other initiatives like financing, digitisation, service
quality, dealer penetration, supply chain ramp up and
thoughtful pricing have helped maintain our market
position.
Farm machinery continues to be a high potential
segment owing to concerns on farm productivity and
labour shortage. The segment is ramping up with
launch of rotary tillers and harvesters for domestic
market and various tractor driven implements for
export market. The Company also plans to leverage
the Centers of Excellence (CoE) in Turkey, Finland and
Japan to launch implements and farm machinery in
the country. Ÿ Revenue CAGR of .% since F21
Ÿ Scaling up of international operations
MS1 - .% in South Africa, % in Australia. Indian tractor industry with annual sales volume
of 876K units witnessed a YoY decline of .%.
However, the long-term growth outlook for the
domestic industry remains positive. The key growth
drivers include improved affordability, demand for
farm mechanisation, newer technologies in farm
sector and continued focus of government spend
in the sector. Ÿ Top of brand affinity and CSAT – SUV Brand CAPITALISING ON
MARKET LEADERSHIP Power # in F23 and F24. Our core businesses in the Automotive and Farm sectors are already well established and scaled players. In the
coming years we will focus on expanding on our market leadership by creating customer obsessed brands
through pioneering technology leadership and global reach. The focus in these two businesses is to build on the
solid foundation to drive further growth and scalability. Ÿ RoCE at % for F24 Our commitment to
pioneering technology
and leveraging global
partnerships ensures
that we remain at the
forefront of agricultural
advancements. Achievements in F24 Ÿ Achieved highest ever annual sales volume of
825K units, % YoY growth AUTO Ÿ Continues to dominate the SUV segment being Indian auto industry is experiencing robust growth,
with vehicle penetration increasing steadily. In F24,
passenger vehicles reached new highest ever mark
of . million sales annually. The SUV segment is
expanding at an even faster pace than the overall
passenger vehicle market. Mahindra's core strength lies in creating authentic
SUVs that resonate with consumers' evolving
preference has been at the forefront of our progress
in the sector. We have established ourselves as a
leader in the segment, with vehicle launches over
the past years underscoring our product and
technological leadership. SUV share in the segment
increased from % in F12 to The positive long-term growth outlook for the Indian
auto industry, favourable government policies,
infrastructure development, increasing income
levels, and a young, aspiring population, further
strengthens Mahindra's position in the Auto business. % in F24. # by revenue market share in SUVs, with
revenue market of .% ( bps YoY growth) Ÿ LCV < .5T market share stood at % an
increase of bps YoY despite the industry
being flat through the year. This was made
possible by launch of new range of Pickups. Ÿ Open Bookings of SUVs at 220K as on May,
* indicated a significant reduction from
previous year levels, demonstrating improved
production capacity and deliveries Ÿ SUV capacity augmentation to 49K per month
* Includes 3XO as on 15th May, , : am Q4 MS in addressable market MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE Strategic Imperatives
The Farm segment at Mahindra aims to deliver
substantial scale through focused strategic actions:
Product Launches and Channel Expansion The
farm division plans to launch new products and
expand its distribution channels to strengthen its
market position.
Scaling Farm Machinery Exponentially Recognising
the high potential of the farm machinery segment,
the Farm Division intends to scale this segment
manifold by F26 (versus F22).
Growing International Business .6X by F26,
focusing on key markets and leveraging Centers of
Excellence in Turkey, Finland, and Japan.
Pioneering Technology Leadership By investing in
cutting-edge technologies and fostering strategic
partnerships, we seek to maintain our leadership in
farm technology and introduce innovative solutions
to the market.
Key Highlights Ÿ Revenue CAGR of .% since F21.
Ÿ Successful launch of OJA, Target and Naya Swaraj
tractors; .% MS gain in last years. UNLOCKING
FULL POTENTIAL Mahindra Finance and Tech Mahindra represent
sizeable businesses with significant potential to
unlock value. Both of these businesses have unique
strengths which should allow them to be leaders in
the segments they operate in. In the past couple of
years, both businesses have underperformed versus
peers due to various operational reasons. We have
been executing a plan to achieve leadership position
in these businesses which should unlock significant
value.
For Mahindra Finance, growth has been robust,
however, asset quality had been uneven especially
during the COVID years. The endeavour in the
business is to lead in Stable and High Asset quality
even as it achieves diversification into attractive
segments of the financial services landscape.
Mahindra Finance is also cultivating strategic
partnerships to gain share in fee based products
and services. The business is investing heavily in
digitising its customer facing as well as internal
processes as it continues to serve the increasingly
tech savvy emerging India.
Tech Mahindra has underperformed versus peers on
margins even as the industry has been faced with
headwinds from global slowdown. With Industry
expected to see some recovery in the coming year,
Tech Mahindra will focus on accelerating new age
offerings and augment deep tech. As it works to
strengthen its revenue streams, it has already
embarked on a large scale transformation of its
organisation and processes to significantly enhance
its ability to deliver world class margins. Ÿ Scaling up of IO operations: OJA US launch, SEA
regional office, Europe entry in CY25. Ÿ Launched India's first intelligent harvester &
>50K tractors with telematic kits deployed. Ÿ RoCE at % for F24.
Achievements in F24 Ÿ Farm has been resilient in a declining industry
and has gained market share of bps to .%.
We have been able to retain the position of
market leader for the consecutive year. Ÿ Farm machinery has grown by % despite rural
slowdown. The growth was driven by record
performance in rotary tillers where we are #
from being non existent just years back. With
pick up in rural economy the segment is expected
to cross %+ growth rate. MAHINDRA FINANCE
Mahindra Finance (MMFSL) has been making steady
progress in its strategy, witnessing % increase in
Market Cap since F21. The company's focus on asset
quality has paid dividends. In F24, Mahindra Finance
achieved steady improvement in its Gross Stage assets achieving a record low .% by year end even
as it crossed lakh Crore Assets Under Management.
With the positive outlook for the Indian financial
sector, driven by economic growth, increasing
financial inclusion, and digital transformation, MMFSL
is well-poised to unlock its full potential. TECH MAHINDRA Strategic Imperatives
MMFSL has laid down a comprehensive Mission: Ÿ Stable asset quality GS- < %
Ÿ 2x AUM Growth
Ÿ Achieve % contribution from new business
lines Ÿ Maintain NIMS at around .%
Ÿ Targeting operating Leverage cost to assets of
c..% With a new leadership team, Tech Mahindra has
embarked on a multi year transformation. The
overarching goal is to achieve leadership in the
segments it operates in with well-defined growth
and operational strategy. The positive long-term
growth outlook for the technology sector, driven
by digital transformation, increasing adoption of
new-age technologies, and expanding global
markets, supports Tech Mahindra's strategic focus. Ÿ Achieve ROA of c..% on a sustained basis Strategic Imperatives Key Highlights Tech Mahindra has outlined a clear vision for F27,
focusing on three main strategic imperatives to
achieve its stated objective of 'Scale At Speed': Ÿ Asset quality improved sharply across Stage and Stage (GS2+GS3 combined) from .% in
F22 to .% in F24. Ÿ The business continues to enhance digital
capabilities to improve customer experience and
employee productivity. Various end-to-end
customer digital journeys are progressing well. Ÿ Partnerships forged with SBI, Bank of Baroda,
India Post are expected to drive volumes in
overall disbursements.
Achievements in F24 Ÿ MMFSL crossed the INR ,, crore mark
in AUM, closing the year with an AUM of
INR ,, crore, reflecting a % YoY growth
and a -year CAGR of %. Ÿ Disbursements stood at INR , crore,
representing a % YoY growth and a -year
CAGR of %. This growth was driven by
healthy diversification across passenger vehicles,
commercial vehicles, used vehicles and
three-wheeler businesses. Ÿ Significant improvement in asset quality, with
GS- at an all-time low of .%
Movement from 31st March, to 28th March, Tech Mahindra is a leading provider of digital
transformation, consulting and business reengineering services and solutions. As an Associate
of the Mahindra Group, it leverages cutting-edge
technology to drive innovation and enhance
customer experiences across diverse industries
globally. Revenue sales improvement The sales organisation
has been simplified to sales SBUs from . The
structure has been delayered for better synergy and
accountability. Time and investment allocation
across accounts has been reviewed to bring more
attention and investment to top accounts and
revamping engagement efforts with small accounts.
Margin improvement The company is working on
centralising the delivery structure to enable
innovation and domain expertise and implement
focused programs towards cost reduction and
margin expansion. This step is expected to enhance
client service while also increasing innovation,
profitability and scalability.
Organisation The internal policies are being
reworked to strike a right balance between robust
processes and frameworks along with freedom and
creativity. Idea is to promote the entrepreneurial
model with a unifying vision and supporting
frameworks. The company also undertook and
external cultural assessment and is working on
the inputs received. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE Accelo has been preparing for the upcoming EV
penetration in India. It has established capability to
provide critical components to the EV industry in
India and globally with world class presses which
have some of the highest level of automation seen
in the global component industry. Key Highlights
This vision is to be driven by growth, organisation,
and operations strategy. F27 goals include: Ÿ Revenue growth – Topline growth > peer average.
Ÿ EBIT margin of %.
Ÿ ROCE% > %.
Ÿ Capital return > % of FCF.
Achievements in F24 Ÿ In a tough year, delivered $676Mn of Free Cash
flow (+% YOY increase) and improvement in
DSO days of days. Ÿ Strong growth of %+ in Manufacturing Vertical.
Ÿ New Organisation structure operationalised in Quarter of F24. Ÿ Launched the Indus Project – India's own Large
Language Model (LLM) to celebrate India's rich
language heritage and preserve our languages
and dialects. 5X CHALLENGE OF
GROWTH GEMS This third group of companies are expected to be
the future value creators for the group. These are
the businesses that possess the right mix of
opportunity that aligns with the India growth story
and a definitive right to win within the sector. Our
aim is to achieve a fivefold increase in their scale
and Value. By nurturing these 'Growth Gems,' we are
setting the stage to transform these “Gems” into
major growth drivers of the Groups' future.
Within the ambit of the Group's strategic objective
to "Deliver Scale," the 5X Challenge of Growth Gems
is particularly pivotal. These Growth Gems are businesses identified for their exceptional potential
and strategic fit within the Mahindra Group's
broader vision. This year, we are pleased to provide a
detailed overview of seven of these ten group
companies. MAHINDRA SUSTEN
Mahindra Susten was founded in as one of
the pioneers in India's renewable sector, and has
significantly contributed to the country's renewable
energy (RE) targets. Susten has successfully
executed over . GWp of renewable projects
worldwide as an Engineering, Procurement, and
Construction (EPC) contractor, also demonstrating
its global capabilities and expertise.
As it transforms itself into a leading developer of
power solutions in India, it has already developed
. GWp of solar projects as an Independent Power
Producer and is aiming to develop . GWp by F27.
Mahindra Susten's strategic imperative focuses on
scaling up renewable energy contributions
significantly. Susten underscores our commitment
to leveraging existing capabilities in high-growth
sectors, while contributing signif icantly to the
groups ESG Commitment.
Strategic Imperatives Ÿ Target to scale up from . GW to
. GW by F27 With strategic advancements in automation and
sustainability practices, Accelo is set to enhance
operational efficiencies and expand its service
offerings, aligning with the Group's goals of
sustainability and innovation.
Key Highlights
Significant Portfolio Manages an IPP portfolio
exceeding . GWp, with an annual generation
capacity of over . billion units.
Strategic Partnerships Enhanced financial
robustness and strategic advisory by onboarding
Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan (OTPP) as a strategic
investor with a .% stake. Strategic Imperatives
Aim to become the largest supplier of auto
components in India by enhancing manufacturing
capabilities and leveraging technological
advancements. Additionally, become the largest
player in organised vehicle recycling by F28.
Key Highlights Achievements in F24
New Order Wins Secured new orders totalling
approximately GWp, which significantly contributes
to the planned growth and expansion targets.
Record InvIT Listing Achieved the largest InvIT
listing in India, marking a significant milestone in
the financial landscape. Industry Leadership Recognised as a leading
mobility and energy components company and a
market leader in high-end transformer components.
Pioneering Recycling Established as India's largest
vehicle recycling company, CERO operates with collection centers and Registered Vehicle
Scrapping Facilities across cities in India.
Achievements in F24 MAHINDRA ACCELO
Mahindra Accelo Ltd. is a leading player in the
manufacturing of automotive components, EV
components, and automotive recycling. In the
energy sector, it is a key supplier of power
components, electrical stampings, and purlins.
Accelo utilises advanced technology to provide
high-end Body-in-White (BiW) components using
blanking lines and India's first high-speed
progressive stampings. Products are supplied to
major automotive OEMs from four locations across
India. Accelo also operates
CERO, India's first and
largest Governmentauthorised recycler of
motor vehicles, promoting
zero tolerance towards
pollution and unsafe
practices in vehicle
recycling. Ÿ Achieved highest ever revenue of approximately
INR , Crores in F24 through volume growth
and addition of new customers. Ÿ Successfully augmented capabilities with EV
component lines now fully operational. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE Key Highlights
Sustainable Development Over million square
feet of residences developed, and over , acres
of integrated cities built. LAST MILE
MOBILITY (LMM)
LMM is recognised as
India's leading electric
-wheeler manufacturer,
having sold over ,,
EVs to date. Environmental Leadership A fully green portfolio
since and launched India's first net zero
energy and waste projects.
Achievements in F24 The portfolio includes models like the electric Treo,
Zor Grand, e-Alfa range and ICE vehicles such as the
Alfa -wheeler and Jeeto -wheeler.
LMM has demonstrated remarkable achievement,
harnessing its leading position in the electric
-wheeler sector. With innovative product launches
planned, LMM is a textbook example of how with a
focused strategy, we have achieved market
leadership in a relatively short period of time.
Strategic Imperatives
Target to launch over new products or upgrades
featuring best-in-class powertrain efficiency and
design.
Key Highlights Ÿ No. electric three wheeler company with >%
market share Launched new residential projects.
Gross Development Value (GDV) INR , crores
of GDV acquired, 4X the value of the previous year. MAHINDRA
LIFESPACES
Mahindra Lifespaces operates in two main business
segments: Residences, which includes mid-premium
residential projects, and IC & IC (Integrated Cities &
Industrial Clusters).
By launching multiple new projects and achieving
record sales, Lifespaces exemplifies how we have
used a focused growth strategy to expand our
footprint in key urban markets of Mumbai
Metropolitan Region (MMR), Bangalore and Pune
while making innovative and sustainable urban
developments our core differentiator. Ÿ Strategic Investments and partnerships Received
significant investments from International Finance
Corporation (IFC) and India Japan Fund (IJF), and
collaborated with Attero for EV battery recycling.
Achievements in F24 Ÿ Overall volumes crossed 100K units for the
first time in . Ÿ E-3W surpassed 66K volumes, 4X growth in years and achieved market share of .%. Ÿ Production Increase: Tripled manufacturing
capacity to meet the sustained demand for E-3W. Ÿ new product launches – Treo plus,
Jeeto Strong, e-Alfa Super Strategic Imperatives Sales Performance Achieved the highest ever
residential sales, with residential pre-sales
amounting to INR , crores (% growth YoY). Founded in , Mahindra Holiday and Resorts India
Limited (MHRIL) offers quality family holidays. Known
for its flagship brand 'Club Mahindra', the company
values reliability, trust, and customer satisfaction.
Club Mahindra has over ,, members and
provides access to more than resorts in India
and abroad. As the leading vacation ownership brand
in India, Club Mahindra's expansion plans and
innovative offerings in hospitality highlight our
strategic focus on enhancing customer experience
and expanding market reach for Emerging India and
its aspirations.
Strategic Imperatives Residences Ÿ Aim to double the cumulative room inventory Land Acquisitions Execute - land acquisitions
per year to sustain growth and support new
developments. IC & IC
Expansion of Facilities Launch new phases and
parks, such as Origins Pune and Origins Chennai
Phase , and pursue opportunities in Built-to-Suit
(BTS) leased premises to expand operational
capacity and versatility. Mahindra Logistics is India's leading Integrated
Supply Chain and Mobility Solutions provider,
operating across various segments including
contract logistics, B2B express, last mile delivery,
freight forwarding, and mobility. With strategic
initiatives like the launch of an integrated Tech stack
and expansions in Network Services, Mahindra
Logistics exemplifies our commitment to leveraging
technology and innovative practices to enhance
service delivery and expand market presence.
Strategic Imperatives MAHINDRA
HOLIDAYS Expand market presence through blockbuster
project launches, with an emphasis on growth in
project scale and frequency. Urban Market Expansion Target the Mumbai
Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune, and Bangalore
with residential developments. MAHINDRA
LOGISTICS from , in F23 to , by F30.
Key Highlights
Market Leadership Recognised as the No.
vacation ownership company outside the USA.
Sustainability Initiatives Established India's first
triple net zero resort in Madikeri.
Achievements in F24
Operational Excellence Achieved a robust
occupancy rate of %.
Membership Growth Member additions increased
by %, with upgrades up by %.
Inventory Expansion Room inventory grew to
, keys, up % from the previous year. Technology Innovation Launch an integrated Tech
stack (LogiOne) to create transformative and
differentiated tech capabilities.
Integrated Solutions Increase focus on Total Cost
of Ownership (TCO) versus purchased cost. Create a
competitive advantage with clients and access a
higher share-of-wallet.
Network Services Expansion Expand services in
Express B2B, Global Freight Forwarding, Last Mile
Delivery, and EV Cargo. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE STRATEGIC OVERVIEW - Key Highlights
Servicing > crores packages delivered per month
across , Pin codes. With space under
management of more than Mn Sq. ft. across
, locations in India serviced through a network
of over , business associates
Sustainability Initiatives Incorporation of EV Cargo
into the logistics solutions, supporting environmental
sustainability.
Achievements in F24 Ÿ Achieved % revenue growth in third-party Strategic Imperatives
Strengthen the product portfolio with an aim to
achieve market leadership in the farm machinery
segment, matching our leadership in tractors.
Key Highlights
Revenue Growth Achieved substantial growth, from
INR crores in F22 to INR crores in F24
Market Leadership # in rotavators with a market
share of .% in F24. logistics (3PL) and mobility. Ÿ % of our revenue came from Integrated Achievements in F24 solutions provided to our customers, > % of
Top customers utilise or more services. Product Launch Successfully launched rotary
tillers, loaders, and backhoes in North America. Ÿ PBT rose to INR crores , indicating improved Market Expansion # in rice transplanters with a
% Y-oY volume growth. operational performance in the 3PL business. Ÿ Equity stake in Zip Zap Logistics now at %
making it a subsidiary, helping us further
consolidate and provide an expanded range of
services for last mile delivery and
micro-fulfilment. Revenue Milestone Achieved INR crores,
reflecting our expanding influence and scale. FARM
MACHINERY AUTO & FARM SECTOR At Mahindra, we strive to unlock potential and fuel India's growth by rising to create value through pioneering
products and technology-led services. With a renewed strategy centred on customer-centricity, accessible
technology, and innovation, we are expanding our reach and enhancing capabilities to drive growth and
empower stakeholders. In the following section, we cover in more detail how we are pivoting to growth in the
Auto and Farm Sectors. AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
We are proud of the momentum we achieved in F24.
We solidified our position as the leading SUV player
by revenue share in the Indian market and climbed to
the number two spot overall for car manufacturers
by revenue. Mahindra LCVs and electric -wheelers
continued their dominance, holding substantial
market share in their segments. Additionally, our
Trucks and Buses business experienced impressive
growth, surpassing the industry average by times.
We remain committed as ever to build the SUV brand
reputation for its Authenticity and Sophistication. The
continued success of the Scorpio-N, Thar and
XUV7OO, and incredible booking pipeline for all our
passenger vehicles are testament to our core pillars
of Differentiated Design, Tough & Sophisticated,
Spirited Performance, Safety, Technology laden
vehicles.
We continue to make strong and bold moves to
accelerate growth in the Automotive Sector: In our Farm Machinery business, we are dedicated
to developing a wide range of farm machinery
addressing critical needs such as labour shortages,
efficiency enhancements, and cost reductions in
farm operations, while boosting crop yields. This is
achieved through state-of-the-art R&D centers,
manufacturing facilities & strategic collaborations
with leading global firms to introduce advanced
agricultural technologies tailored for specific tasks
such as potato planting, baling, spraying and paddy
transplanting.
Farm Machinery is identified as a Growth Gem
due to inevitable scaling up of farm mechanisation
in India, dominant market leadership in tractors
and strategic alignment with global agricultural
advancements. It is poised to significantly impact
the Group's growth journey by leveraging cuttingedge technologies and expanding global reach. Ÿ Customer Obsessed Brands Differentiated
SUV brand experience, innovative omni-channel
models. Ÿ Propel ICE SUVs with Cutting-edge Products
Turn-on design, democratise technology,
class-leading performance, advanced safety,
premiumisation. Ÿ Pioneering a New Era with Category Creating
E-SUVs Purpose-built platforms, Software defined
architecture, Ecosystem partnership approach. Ÿ Build a CV Moat Higher earnings with Maxx SUMMARY
These Growth Gems are integral to our strategic
framework, each contributing uniquely to our
overarching goal of Delivering Scale. By focusing on
these dynamic sectors, we not only foster growth
within these businesses but also secure long-term
sustainability and competitive advantage across the
Mahindra Group. pickup range as our core proposition and launch
new portfolio of pickups. Ÿ Go Global Scale up priority markets by leveraging
the new Global Pik-Up and Electric SUVs. Building an SUV Legacy
We foresee that our core auto brands will continue
to remain in strong momentum, aided by the strong
order pipeline of the Scorpio Classic, Scorpio-N,
Bolero Neo, and the Thar.
Between XUV 3XO, Thar,
XUV7OO, Bolero, Bolero Neo,
Scorpio-N and Scorpio Classic,
we have clocked ~220K
open bookings.* Strengthening Leadership
in LCV
In F24, we were No. in LCVs < .5T (volumes) a feat that has been unchallenged in the industry
for the last nine years. We have been the leader in
the pick-up segment for over years. In F24, we
solidified our leadership position with a whole new
range of Pik-Up under the brand Maxx Pik-Up
catering to multiple requirements of intracity,
intercity as well as rural customers.
* as on 1st May, ; includes 3XO as on 15th May, , : am MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE FARM EQUIPMENT
SECTOR
We continued to remain the world's largest tractor
manufacturer by volume in F24, a testament to our
unwavering commitment to transform farming and
enrich lives of the farmers we serve.
We remain positive about the growth potential in
the farm sector, fuelled by an above-average
monsoon forecast, government infrastructure
development, increased agricultural spending, and
improved agri-credit availability.
With ,,
Developing the EV Strategy
In line with our EV vision, we plan to invest INR
, crore in F25-F27 for setting up the
manufacturing facility, development and production
of our upcoming SUV Electric Vehicles.
In F24, external investors continued to show faith in
our EV vision. The Last Mile Mobility business
entered into agreements to raise INR , crores
from two external investors at a valuation of over
INR , crores. We added another marquee
investor, Temasek, in Mahindra Electric Automobiles
Limited (MEAL) with investment of USD million
(in addition to the previous investment from British
International Investment) at a valuation of USD .
billion. tractors sold,
F24 marks our second
highest ever tractor
volumes sales achieved. Ÿ Consistently growing the market share We
have increased our market share by .% in the
last years. F24 saw the successful launch of
OJA, Target & Naya Swaraj. Ÿ Significantly grow international business We
launched the brand OJA in the US and started
the Southeast Asia regional office in F24 and
plan to enter the European market in CY25. Ÿ Pioneering technology leadership We deployed
over thousand tractors with telematics kit
and also launched India's first intelligent
harvester. Ÿ Quantum growth in Farm Machinery by building
We sold , EV's in F24 as against
, EV's in F23 with
a growth of %.
In F24, our Automotive Sector achieved a total
export volume of , vehicles. This growth
was particularly strong in Australia, New Zealand,
South and Central America, fuelled by our robust
SUV portfolio. Looking ahead, we're excited to
explore new potential markets like the UK and
Europe with our upcoming Born Electric Range. the product portfolio and channel expansion. Ÿ Leverage partnerships for FM and global growth,
and for technology solutions. Core Domestic
Mahindra and Swaraj, our flagship brands, are poised
to fortify our domestic market leadership. Through
product innovation, enhanced financing, digitalisation,
and superior service, we're intensifying dealer reach,
bolstering the supply chain, optimising pricing, and
enhancing partnerships for a stronger presence in the
market, including through our third brand Trakstar.
With market share at .% in F24, we continued to be
the domestic market leader
for the 41st consecutive year. Growth in Farm
Mechanisation
We have aggressive plans to grow our Farm
Machinery business, through launch of 'Made in India'
farm machinery products. These include rotary
tillers, harvesters, and rice transplanters amongst
others. We achieved -year CAGR of % in F24.
In F24, we launched new rotary tillers and
harvesters for the domestic market and various
tractor driven implements for export markets. We
also launched Swaraj - India's first and only
intelligent Harvester which has a host of digital
features for customers and product service support.
We will continue to launch new implements and
farm machinery in the country through our Centres
of Excellence (CoEs) in Turkey, Finland and Japan.
Global Farm Businesses
In F24, we sold , tractors in the export
market. Export during the year have been sluggish
due to a slowdown in some key markets like the U.S.,
Sri Lanka, etc. In Q4 of F24, we launched the new
Mahindra OJA in the U.S. market, the second largest
market for Mahindra outside India. Going forward,
we will launch the Mahindra Tractor brand in new
markets such as Europe and ASEAN for faster
growth of overall exports. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE RISKS &
OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES
& OUTLOOK Our business is exposed to many internal and
external risks and consequently, we have
institutionalised robust systems and processes,
along with appropriate review mechanisms to
actively identify, monitor, manage and mitigate
these risks. In both the Automotive and Farm Sectors, our aim is to sustain profitable growth while maintaining a leadership
position domestically and exploring global opportunities. We remain committed to achieving cost leadership
through focused cost optimisation, productivity enhancements, value engineering, efficient supply chain
management, and leveraging synergies across our group businesses. Commodity Prices Ÿ Remain focused on cost reduction through
measures like VA/VE, negotiation with suppliers,
long term price contracting, etc. Ÿ Continue to watch the market situation closely KEY RISKS
Competitive Intensity
Continue to invest in new product development,
technology upgradations, increasing channel reach,
while focussing on delivering customer centric
products, services and brand building.
Tax Regulations
Strengthen the UV product portfolio attracting
lower tax rates with products like XUV3OO, Bolero
Neo, Bolero power Plus, Thar.
New Regulation for Safety
Geared up and confident of meeting any new
regulations introduced.
New Products and
Technologies
A comprehensive program for development of new
products and technologies that will enable us to
remain competitive in the market, cater to emerging
customer expectations and to meet any legislative
requirements.
Environment and
Alternate Fuels Ÿ Actively pursuing development of the Electric
Vehicle (EV) market, products, and technology. Ÿ Along with Electrification, we are also working on
alternate fuels technology. and focus on mitigating commodity price
volatility through 'Commodity Risk Management'. Ÿ Hedging of currencies and commodities are being
governed in accordance with the Foreign
Exchange Risk Management Policy and
Commodity Risk Management Policy, approved by
the Board of Directors of your Company.
Monsoon Ÿ Going into F25, the IMD in its first long range
forecast, predicted seasonal rainfall (June to
September) to be 'Above Normal 'i.e., at % of
the Long Period Average (LPA). Ÿ Spatial distribution suggests that above normal
seasonal rainfall is very likely over most parts of
the country except some areas over Northwest,
East and Northeast India, where below normal
rainfall is likely.
Capacity Ÿ Aim to produce ,, EVs between and from our Born Electric range. Ÿ We organised a ground-breaking ceremony for a
state-of-the-art manufacturing unit to build
battery assembly lines, power packs, and
electronic drivetrain components for electric
- and -wheelers. This modern facility, set to roll
out in days, boasts an annual capacity of
,, units and features cutting-edge
technologies like AI Vision systems and over robots. AUTOMOTIVE
SECTOR FARM EQUIPMENT
SECTOR While the long-term outlook for the Indian Auto
Industry is promising, the industry took four years
to pre-COVID levels in commercial vehicles, threewheelers and two-wheelers. Passenger vehicles
which had already recovered to reach pre-COVID
levels last year, crossed the . millionth mark in
F24. The mid to long term outlook for the Indian tractor
industry is positive. The industry is seeing an
upswing with harvesting of crops underway and
expectations of a bumper crop this Rabi season.
Acreage of summer crop which is sown between
Rabi and Kharif season has crossed last year's level
which is also promising for the farmer community. Factors that may significantly influence demand for
automobiles in F25 are: Government budgets on infrastructure and rural
development are likely to benefit commercial
demand. Further, the demand for mechanisation is
also growing as shortage of agricultural labour will
lead to increase in labour cost. Ÿ Policies by the Government to boost
consumption. Ÿ Aggressive Government push for infrastructureled growth. Ÿ Increase in cost of ownership due to commodity
price and fuel price increase. As per the Automotive
Mission Plan (AMP
), the mid to longterm outlook for the
Indian auto industry is
positive. Ÿ In partnership with our key suppliers, we are
leveraging digitisation to insulate our operations
from supply chain volatility. In addition, there are risks like significant variations in
monsoon and supply chain blockages prompted by
the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and crisis in the
Middle East that we will continue to address. For detailed information on the risks and opportunities and outlook,
please refer to the Management Discussion and Analysis section,
page no. -, in the Integrated Annual Report -. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO
CREATE VALUE INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL INPUT FINANCIAL CAPITAL
Total Segment Capital
Employed (J Cr) MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
, Gross Debt to Equity Ratio . Net Capital Expenditure
(J Cr) , Number of Plants in India Material Cost (J Cr) , Key Raw Materials Steel, Iron, Rubber, Glass,
Aluminium, Copper, etc. INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL R&D Nodes Permanent
Employees (nos.) , % of Renewable
Electricity CSR Investment (J Cr)* . Temporary / Casual /
Contractual Employees (nos.) , Total Energy
Consumption (GJ) ,, Employee volunteering
Person Hours
(ESOPs + MySeva) , Total Water
Consumption (m3) ,, No. of Employee
Volunteers , Key Focus Areas Girl Child Education,
Women Empowerment,
Environment MRV-led R&D centres,
Pininfarina, MANA, M.A.D.E.,
MIDS, MAM, Sampo Rosenlew Patents Applied (nos.) Patents Granted (nos.) Design Registrations
Granted (nos.) NATURAL CAPITAL Unionised Permanent
Workforce (%)
Employee Beneﬁt Expense
(J Cr) SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL ,. Permanent Women Employees (nos.) , * e CSR investment is % CSR spend of M&M Ltd. and is inclusive of
other CSR projects, administrative expenses & Impact Assessment costs GOVERNANCE | MISSION, VISION, VALUES, CODE OF CONDUCT AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
Key Aspects Stakeholder Engagement Strategy & Resource Allocation Performance Outlook Business Model showing Principal Activities O U TCO M E S Farm Equipment
Tractors, Implements R&D,
Design and
Development Testing, Proof
of Concept and
Finalisations Raw Materials
and Other Input
Procurement New Features, Technologies, Upgrades and Variants Customers Distribution,
Shipping and
Logistics Manufacturing,
Assembly and
Final Production Automotive Vehicles
ICE, Electric Technology, Innovation,
Design & Digital
Solutions and Services Support Functions Human Resources | Accounts | Finance & Compliance | IT | Customer Service | Corporate Strategy & Planning | Research & Development
Safety, Health & Environment | Corporate Communications | Marketing & Business Development | Business & Environment | CSR FINANCIAL CAPITAL Income from operations
(J Cr.)
EBITDA (J Cr.) OUTPUT Risks and Opportunities MANUFACTURED CAPITAL ,,
, Net proﬁt (before EI)
(J Cr.) , Dividend from group
companies (J Cr.) , Total Automotive Vehicles
Sold (nos.)
Ÿ Passenger Vehicles (nos.) ,, Ÿ Commercial Vehicles (nos.) ,, ree-Wheelers (nos.) , Ÿ Automotive Exports (nos.) , Total Tractors Sold (nos.)* ,, Ÿ INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL New Products
Launched Permanent Employees
Trained (nos.) , GHG Emissions - Scope1
(tCO2) , No. of Girls empowered
under Project Nanhi Kali , Temp. / Casual / Contractual
Employees Trained (nos.) , GHG Emissions - Scope2
(tCO2) ,, No. of Women empowered
through women
empowerment projects ,, No. of Trees Planted under
Project Hariyali ,, Water harvesting potential
created (Lakh Litres) , ,, New
Technologies Auto: new global Pik Up, Bolero Neo+
Ambulance, ar E, Supro Proﬁt Truck Excel
series, Jeeto strong, ‘Scorpio-N Z8 Select,
Bolero MaXX Pik-UpFarm: OJA series, CNG
mono fuel tractor on its Yuvo tractor
platform, Swaraj FE, FE tractors,
Swaraj Wheel Harvester, a new Compact
Light Weight tractor range ‘Swaraj Target’
Battey pack with Lean Module technology,
leveraging multipleemerging technologies,
including EVs, Electric Power Train for Tractor,
connected applications for Tractors, Connected
LED Tail-Lamps, Aluminum Battery frame with
Colt metal transfer welding technology,
Printed GPS Antenna (on Glass), LFP Blade cell
for High voltage Battery application Cumulative Patents
Granted as of F24 (nos.) NATURAL CAPITAL Complaints on Child /
Involuntary Labour Complaints on Discriminatory
Employment(sexual
harassment complaints) SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Energy Saved (GJ) , Water Reused (%) GHG (Mitigated + Avoided)
tCO2 ,, ,
Model representative of M&M Standalone inputs and outputs MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY
DIGITAL
CAPABILITIES
Technology continues to be a key enabler of
future-readiness at Mahindra. By adopting newer
technologies, we have increased our operational
efficiency, built a competitive moat, saved costs,
and improved customer experience. FUELLING
GROWTH WITH AI
AND AUTOMATION
We aspire to be the
technology leader in every
sector we operate in. To achieve this aspiration, we are leveraging the latest in technology across our Group Companies to address
intricate business challenges and driving positive changes in communities. Our innovations and capabilities are
classified into five categories, each contributing to our growth and success: Process
Optimisation
and Efﬁciency Fuelling
Growth
with AI and
Automation Customer
Experience and
Engagement
through Digital
Platforms Next-gen solutions
with Gen AI
Group-wide
Mahindra AI is an industry-first enterprise-level
Generative AI platform developed by Mahindra to
address the need for advanced AI capabilities across
its businesses and functions Through Mahindra AI
we have deployed - AI bot for financial analysis, AI
bot for HR, and AI analysis of auto customers audio
calls, generation of test cases for developers and
assisting the accounts team with accounting
standard documents. Genie X, our AI-powered digital
assistant, elevates employee productivity by
providing quick access to HR data and services. Driving Efﬁciency
with Generative AI
Auto Sector
Ÿ It enables call centre agents to handle additional
emails/day more effectively, trimming team size
and person-hours. Ÿ It assists service centre technicians with report
summarisation and AI-powered search, enhancing
efficiency and productivity. Ÿ Our custom OCR system analyses test Data
Analytics
& Insights Cyber
Security certificates before the metal stack reaches the
press shop, enabling early detection of quality
issues. (not GEN AI use case but AI ML use case) Mahindra
Vision.AI
Mahindra First Choice Wheels & Teqo
MahindraVision.AI is a computer vision platform
which helps build AI models on images. The solution
is deployed horizontally for businesses like Mahindra
First Choice Wheels and Teqo where image-based
solution is required either for process improvement,
automation, cost reduction, safety measures or
elevating the customer experience. Ÿ It detects used car dents and damages,
streamlines inspections, and identifies solar plate
defects, enhancing solar cell efficiency. Ÿ It also reduces dependence on third parties,
ensuring process improvement, automation, cost
reduction, and safety enhancement. Ÿ Moreover, in manufacturing, it enables safe
vehicle lifting through sensor integration,
ensuring precise alignment and operational
efficiency. Ÿ For VIN plate matching, it seamlessly transitions
between barcode scanning and image capture,
utilising deep learning OCR technology to
enhance accuracy and streamline assembly line
operations. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY PROCESS
OPTIMISATION
AND EFFICIENCY CUSTOMER
EXPERIENCE AND
ENGAGEMENT Transformation in
Vehicle Retail Financing Metaverse
powered by AI Convenience On Track,
with mTrack Auto Sector Mahindra Lifespaces Farm Sector Finance Genie, the auto industry's first end-to-end
dealer assisted vehicle financing platform, leverages
seamless integrations with leading financers (
live and in the pipeline) to empower our dealers to
generate tailored loan offers for customers, create
loan applications in under mins and track real-time
application status. As of F24, over , offers have
been generated using Finance Genie and more than
INR crore have been digitally disbursed. In F24, MLDL debuted India's first Metaverse homebuying experience, redefining customer engagement.
The immersive approach led to over % of
inventory sold within four weeks, with revenues
exceeding INR Crores. Mahindra Track is a system integrated & GPS
enabled mobile app that enables our international
customers with all forms of service support, dealer
network, service appointment, parts query, service
history, warranty details in a customised &
convenient manner. Ski-rack Mismatch
Detection
Auto Sector
The advanced Ski-rack mismatch detection system,
deployed at AS Chakan, accurately identifies vehicles
with mismatched ski-rack fitment, generating realtime alerts for immediate corrective action. Test Drive Anytime
Anywhere
Auto Sector
With Test Drive Anytime Anywhere (TDAA), we are
the only SUV OEM that empowers customers to
independently book an exact test drive slot at their
preferred dealership through multiple channels such
as the website, WhatsApp, dealership, app and call
centre. HPC on Cloud
AFS
'High Performance Computing (HPC) on Cloud'
enables engineering teams to innovate and improve
product performance through design simulations,
thereby reducing time-to-market, higher ROI, and
accelerated growth. Improved Decal and
Tyre Inspection System
Farm Sector
Using machine vision cameras and deep learning
technology, we monitor tractor decal fitments and
tyre correctness and trigger a stoppage of the
conveyor in case of any discrepancy. This ensures
accurate tyre placement, improves quality control
and reduces re-work costs. Better Ownership
Experience with Digisense
Farm Sector On Cloud Optimisation An app-based connected vehicle technology,
Digisense transforms the tractor ownership
experience with real-time tracking, geo-fencing,
fuel monitoring, and maintenance alerts to
enhance operational efficiency. Group-wide For a Smarter Harvest On Cloud Optimisation is focussed on achieving
sustainable and optimised cloud usage to improve
Return on Investment (ROI) through strategies such
as snoozing, clean-up, right sizing, open-source
adoption, and containerisation. Farm Sector
The Smart Harvesting Solution (SHS), an AI & MLbased product, combines sugar mill's farmer data,
weather forecasts, and daily available satellite
imagery to generate valuable insights for sugar mills
on a weekly basis - sugar content, sugarcane yield
and sugarcane crop health. SHS has been
implemented in over ,, acres across India. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY CYBER
SECURITY
DATA ANALYTICS
& INSIGHTS
Our cybersecurity strategy enables us to mitigate
risks, enhance our defences and ensure business
continuity in the face of the growing cyber threat
landscape. In our ongoing commitment to
cybersecurity, we have implemented several key
programs and controls. Power Insights for
Value Propositions
Club Mahindra
The Power Insight project is focused on harnessing
the power of algorithms to empower the customer
service team at Club Mahindra. The project aims to
provide next best actions to customer support
teams for inbound calls by members. It involves
analysing user behaviour and utilising data security
and governance using a cloud-first approach.
The expected benefits include enhanced member
experience through receiving relevant information
like upgrades and other benefits, revenue
generation opportunities through various action
areas like increase in F&B selling, online leads
conversion improvements, and improved resort
utilisation through assisted holiday planning. Predictive Maintenance
Made Better
Auto Sector
This initiative focuses on implementing data
analytics for predictive maintenance in the paint
shop of our manufacturing facilities. By analysing
critical condition-based monitoring (CBM)
parameters from over shopfloor chiller motors,
including temperature, vibration, speed, current,
differential pressure, and environmental
temperature, we aim to predict anomalies and
failures.
The project develops a user-friendly dashboard
with real-time data visualisation and predictive
graphs for monitoring motor performance. An AI
chatbot is implemented for interactive querying
and customised reports. The project aims to improve
operational efficiency, reduce downtime, enable
proactive maintenance, and achieve cost savings
and enhanced productivity for the paint shop. These initiatives include the implementation of cloud
security solutions, such as policy remediation and
monitoring, with adherence to industry standards
such as ISO27001: , TiSAX and DPDPA. Data Consolidation
to Increase Capabilities
Teqo
The Prakraman project focuses on establishing a
data lake for products of Teqo (Solar business of
Mahindra Group) to enable data consolidation,
analytics, and data science.
The project involves the flow of data from SCADA
to the Google Cloud Platform and it aims to enable
data science and analytical offerings, save
infrastructure costs, and provide data access for
business intelligence. It involves collaboration
between site owners, site teams, subject matter
experts, and end customers. Horizon
Farm Sector
Horizon is a data-driven transformation project by
Mahindra Tractors that aims to create a connected
view of various aspects related to customers,
tractors, applications, farming systems, weather, and
land usage. The project's goal is to identify trends,
patterns, and insights from the collected data and
make effective business decisions and improve
customer experience by: Ÿ Identifying high-value customers and increasing
Net Promoter Score (NPS). Ÿ Increasing post-warranty customer retention,
resulting in an incremental service revenue in the
coming years. Ÿ Predicting changes in farming seasons and
improving sales fund deployment effectiveness. Ÿ Increasing the number of service campaigns,
leading to an incremental service revenue.
The uniqueness of Horizon lies in its ability to
seamlessly integrate multiple data sources, such as
telematics data, geo-spatial information, farming
patterns, satellite imagery, and internal and
competition data. By combining these data sources,
valuable insights are generated for the customer
and tractor industry. To continuously improve our security posture, we
have enhanced our existing controls by ensuring the
vulnerability management and application security
DevSecOps automation, Cloud Security policy
implementation and monitoring, Ransomware
readiness simulation exercises and DPDPA (Data
Privacy and Data Protection Act) implementation
across the group companies and M&M.
Inline to the Information Technology Security
posture improvement significant changes have been
made to secure our operational technology (OT)
assets across our plants. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY ONE
Number In SUVs by
revenue market share In LCVs
in . ton category Tractor
manufacturer by volume Electric -Wheelers
company MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY Exciting New Launches
Strengthen Our SUV LEADERSHIP
The Thar Earth Edition is
inspired by the landscapes of the
Thar Desert and comes in satin
matte Desert Fury colour with
custom made dune-inspired decals
and leatherette seats. The XUV700 elevates
sophistication and innovation with
front ventilated seats in all-new Napoli
Black colour, optional 2nd row captain
seats, first-in-segment Memory ORVMs
and more. Mahindra expands its
XUV300 line-up with two
new variants offering an
exceptional blend of value and
performance for those looking
for an authentic and sporty SUV. The all-electric XUV400
Pro Range introduced in
three new variants is
equipped with modern tech,
digital infotainment system
and more. The Scorpio-N Z8 Select
variant further expands the Z8
premium range comes in exclusive
Midnight Black colour option that
accentuates its bold design and
luxurious cabin environment. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY New Models BOLSTER
Mahindra OJA aimed at
transforming farming in India comes
loaded with first-in-category technology
features for unparalleled platform
versatility and efficiency to handle
diverse agricultural tasks. Swaraj Target the
compact light weight tractor
range boasts of many first-insegment features and advanced
technology features providing
efficiency and power. Naya Swaraj, Swaraj
Tractors' new portfolio range in to HP category infuses modern
aesthetics, contemporary style, and
the brand's timeless design. our Tractor
Portfolio MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE TO BE
FUTURE-READY New Product Launches That SET NEW TRENDS
LCVs The Bolero Neo+ Ambulance
aims to fill the gap between smaller vanbased offerings and bigger coach-based
offerings in the Type B Ambulance segment
to meet the patient transportation gap. Supro CNG Duo
marks Mahindra's entry into
the dual-fuel small commercial
vehicles segment. It runs on
CNG and Petrol offering high
fuel efficiency. The Supro Profit Truck
Excel series is redefining lastmile connectivity in SCV segment
with best-in-class payload, deck
length and high mileage. It offers a
range of 500km+. The all-new Bolero MaXX
Pik-Up range offers increased
payload capacity along with AC
and iMAXX connected solution
that empowers fleet management. With a higher payload capacity
Mahindra Jeeto Strong stands
out with its best-in-segment mileage and
brand-new digital instrument cluster and
improved suspension. Mahindra e-Alfa Super is
the newest entrant in the e-rickshaw
segment. With best-in-class safety,
warranty and comfort, this
e-rickshaw can travel + kilometre
on a single charge. -Wheelers The key highlight of the
Mahindra Treo Plus
is its bigger battery capacity
that offers a km realworld driving range on a
single charge. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD RISE FOR A MORE
EQUAL WORLD For achieving these commitments, we aim to be
Planet Positive, People Positive and Trust Positive. ESG LEADERSHIP At Mahindra, our commitment to delivering scale
extends far beyond mere business metrics and
financial gains. We recognise the integral role of
sustainability and ESG performance in shaping a
better future for all stakeholders. Through
unwavering dedication, we ensure that our
operations not only thrive economically but also
contribute positively to society and the
environment. By integrating nationbuilding endeavours with
forward-looking industries
and communities, we
foster collaboration and
mutual empowerment. PLANET POSITIVE
Environment TRUST POSITIVE
Governance Our steadfast commitment to preserving natural
resources, mitigating pollution, safeguarding
biodiversity, and nurturing the environment for
future generations remains resolute. With scaling up
of our electric vehicle portfolio and a
comprehensive Group-wide aspiration to achieve
carbon neutrality by , we are contributing to
mitigate climate change and charting a path
towards a more sustainable tomorrow. Our success rests on robust, equitable, and
sustainable growth for all stakeholders, underpinned
by unwavering governance standards. Through a
culture emphasising transparency, accountability,
integrity, and responsibility, we foster trust and
uphold our reputation as a company dedicated to
ethical conduct. PEOPLE POSITIVE
Social
We are dedicated to fostering a positive influence on
the world by scaling our efforts beyond our
operational spaces. Central to our ethos is the
creation of a diverse, inclusive, dynamic, and meritbased workplace, where our employees are
empowered to excel. Our CSR initiatives prioritise
the empowerment of girls and women through
strategic social investments, while our extensive
tree plantation programme exemplifies our
commitment to environmental preservation for the
benefit of future generations. This ethos embodies our philosophy of
#TogetherWeRise, where collective action propels
us towards a shared vision of progress. OUR TEN COMMITMENTS
We pledge to drive social change and environment conservation while building financial momentum, laying the
groundwork for sustainable growth and accelerating meaningful impact. Our Ten Commitments stand as a
testament to this resolve. Over the years, the consistency of our efforts and
the scale of impacts they create, have helped us
gain a leadership role on numerous global platforms: Ÿ Mahindra is the only Indian Auto OEM in Dow
Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the consecutive year and ranked amongst the
global auto OEMs. Out of the seven Indian
companies featured in the World Index, two were
Mahindra Group companies – M&M and Tech
Mahindra. Ÿ Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and CEO,
assumed the prestigious role of President at the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and
Industry (FICCI) for the term -. Ÿ Dr. Anish Shah was also nominated as Co-Chair for RENEWABLE
ENERGY CARBON
NEUTRAL NANHI
KALI GOLD STANDARD
IN GOVERNANCE WOMEN
EMPOWERMENT % of
Electrical Energy Science Based
Targets in place Educate million
girls per year Compliance &
Disclosures Support million
women per year PROJECT
HARIYALI WATER
POSITIVE ENERGY
PRODUCTIVITY CARBON PRICING
EMPHASIS ZERO WASTE
TO LANDFILL Plant million
trees per year at Group Level % Improvement
Targeted In Business
Decisions % Sites
Certiﬁed ONGOING ONGOING the World Economic Forum (WEF)'s India Edition
of CEO Climate Leaders. It serves as a high-level
platform for business leaders to support concrete
plans and ideas to step up India's climate action
and green transition efforts. Ÿ Mahindra Group and Johnson Controls launched
the Net Zero Buildings Initiative to support India's
decarbonisation goals. This ground-breaking
initiative accelerates the deployment of smart,
sustainable buildings, simplifying access to
resources for organisations to embark on their
net-zero journey. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD ENVIRONMENT With an ambition of becoming Global ESG Leader by
, we are committed to leading the way towards
a sustainable future for all, and aim to achieve the
following goals:
Carbon Neutral by In a world where climate change disproportionately
impacts the vulnerable, Mahindra stands committed
to fostering equity while combatting this global
challenge. Through our 'Planet
Positive' approach, we
intertwine sustainability
with every facet of our
operations.
This includes initiatives such as carbon emission
reduction, water source replenishment, biodiversity
enrichment, and the establishment of carbon sinks.
Moreover, we prioritise community and employee
welfare, stakeholder value creation, and the
mitigation of ESG risks while seizing opportunities
for growth.
Since our inception, sustainability has been at the
core of our business ethos. Notably, Mahindra was
the first global company to pledge to double energy
productivity through the EP100 initiative.
Additionally, we are on track to achieve 'Zero Waste
to Landfill' certification across all our locations by
. Our ambitious 'Project Hariyali' aims to plant
five million trees annually by F26, with . million
trees already planted. These sustained efforts have
garnered global recognitions, positioning Mahindra
as a responsible corporate citizen. Committed to
Science Based
Targets % Renewable
Electrical Energy % by (Internal Target) % Improvement in
Energy Productivity % by Zero Waste to Landfill
% Identified Sites ZWL Certified
by Project Hariyali Plant million
trees per year
by For more than years, we have been disclosing
information to all stakeholders in a transparent
manner through our Sustainability Report based
on the GRI framework. Since F22, our sustainability
report also aligns with: Ÿ Government of India's National Guidelines
on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) Ÿ Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations Ÿ WEF's Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics
Ÿ United Nations' Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) We have also been publishing the Annual Integrated
Report based on International Integrated Reporting
Council (IIRC) Framework since the last five years.
The IIRC framework emphasises the importance of
Natural Capital as a critical component of
sustainable business practices.
We conserve, protect, and improve Natural Capital
through the 3Cs approach:
. Conservation of Natural Resources
. Continuous Improvement towards Rejuvenation
. Comprehensive Disclosures MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD Our environmental management relies on a
cohesive framework and targeted interventions.
Initiatives like integration of alternative energy
sources, industry decarbonisation, and ecosystem
rejuvenation drive our commitment to sustainability. KEY
MATERIALITY
ISSUES
Derived by harmonising stakeholder expectations
with operational imperatives, materiality plays a
pivotal role in our sustainability strategy. It
facilitates thorough risk assessment and process
refinement, magnifying our environmental influence
on a larger scale.
Through engagement with a spectrum of
stakeholders - from management to communities,
and informed by industry benchmarks, we discern
crucial issues. This meticulous process culminates in
a comprehensive materiality matrix, reinforcing our
dedication to robust environmental performance
and stakeholder value. We review and assess
our materiality annually
to identify new material
topics. Our key material environmental issues are: Carbon
Emission
Water
Security
Waste to
Wealth
These core issues were given due importance while
formulating the sustainability strategy. Some of the
highlights of our sustainability initiatives are
mentioned in this section. REDUCTION OF
GREENHOUSE
GASES (GHG)
Every ton of GHG reduction propels us towards our
carbon neutrality goal, reducing our carbon
footprint, and curbing pollution. Our key initiatives
to reduce GHG emissions include:
CARBON PRICING
At Mahindra, we recognise the importance of
internalising the costs of carbon emissions to
incentivise emission reductions and drive the
transition towards a low-carbon economy. Our
internal carbon pricing mechanism, set at USD per ton of CO2 emitted, serves as a financial
instrument to support investments in low-carbon
technologies and processes. It also fosters informed
management decisions regarding sustainable
investments, thereby ensuring alignment with our
long-term environmental goals.
GREEN PORTFOLIO
Mahindra Group's Green Portfolio includes
businesses, services and initiatives such as
renewable energy, auto recycling, green buildings,
micro-irrigation and electric vehicles. SCIENCE-BASED
TARGETS (SBT)
Given the significant impact of climate change on
our operations, we are committed to science-based
targets that align with global efforts to limit global
warming.
In line with the Science Based Targets initiative
(SBTi), we have established ambitious targets to
reduce GHG emissions across our value chain. We aim to reduce
Scope and Scope emissions by % per
equivalent product unit
and Scope emissions
by % per sold
product unit by ,
relative to a baseline. RENEWABLE ENERGY
Energy transition is pivotal in accelerating our
efforts toward achieving carbon neutrality and
combating climate emergency. We are swiftly
transitioning from hydrocarbons to incorporate costeffective and eco-friendly energy sources like solar
and wind into our energy portfolio.
Our installed capacity of renewable energy has
reached 86MWp, contributing significantly to the
emissions reduction. Additionally, renewable projects
with solar and wind installations are underway
which will enhance the renewable share in the
overall energy mix. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD CONSERVATION
OF ENERGY
Over the years, energy conservation measures have yielded multiple benefits at Mahindra. On the business
front, it helps us blunt the impact of rising energy costs and contributes to our effort to reach the carbon
neutrality target. On the environment front, it controls emissions and reduces the demand for Earth's natural
resources.
Environmental KPIs F23 F24 Total Energy Consumption (GJ) ,, ,, GHG Emissions (Scope ) (tCO₂) , , ,, ,, GHG Emissions (Scope ) Note: Due to increase in production, total energy consumption and scope & emissions are higher in F24 compared to F23. Featured below are some of the significant energy efficiency
measures undertaken during the reporting period. Driving Efﬁciency
through Intelligent
Air Handling Revolutionising
Material & Energy
Efﬁciency AS, Nashik AS, Nashik In the automobile manufacturing sector, energy
consumption primarily stems from motors and
blowers, constituting almost % of a unit's energy
usage. Among these, blowers, including Air Handling
Units (AHUs) and Air Circulators, contribute over
%. AHUs are indispensable for maintaining a
healthy environment for operators, so they can
neither be completely removed or even reduced in
numbers. In the automotive industry, the paint shop stands
out as an energy guzzler and within this process,
significant energy is consumed in heating pretreatment chemicals and baking Cathodic Electrodeposition (CED) paint coatings. To tackle this, the AS team explored replacing
conventional AHUs and Air Circulators with energyefficient alternatives. They identified two key
interventions: Ÿ Replacement of Conventional AHUs with
intelligent EC Blowers Ÿ Replacement of Conventional Air Circulators with
BLDC and HVLS fans
The implementation of intelligent EC Blowers at plants of M&M resulted in energy savings of more
than %. Similarly, BLDC Air Circulators,
implemented at plants, provided better airflow
using less energy, resulting in more than %
savings in energy cost.
These interventions collectively led to significant
benefits: Ÿ Energy savings equivalent to power ,
% homes annually %
% % planting . lakh trees % Apart from energy savings, energy productivity
improves operations and enhances process
reliability, leading to reduced downtimes and
shutdowns. Therefore, at Mahindra, we follow a
holistic approach to consistently enhance energy
productivity. We record energy productivity data
separately for AS (Automotive Sector) and FES
(Farm Equipment Sector). Following is the EP data
trend w.r.t. baseline year (-). Ÿ Emission reduction of , tCO2, akin to % ENHANCING ENERGY
PRODUCTIVITY (EP) AS
F23 F24 F22 AS, Nashik faced the challenge of seamlessly
integrating new energy-efficient technology
solutions in its -year-old pre-treatment and
CED processes without compromising quality or
productivity.
Utilising the Project Evaluation Review Technique
(PERT), the Unit meticulously analysed energy and
material consumption trends. Collaborating with a
leading surface treatment technology supplier, it
identified two innovative products. Ÿ Gardoclean VP LB for degreasing
Ÿ Cathoguard CG800 for CED coating.
With Gardoclean VP LB, the degreasing stage
operating temperature reduced to °C from
existing -°C. While with CED CG – CED,
material consumption could be reduced by .8kg per
bodyshell.
The project has led to significant annual saving of
INR lakh from reduced energy usage and INR
. crore from material savings (fuel, water, and
power). To cascade the deployment of green
technology products, learnings from the AS, Nashik
project are being shared with the Chakan plant for
horizontal deployment. The AS, Nashik Paint
shop is the 1st OEM in
India to implement this
technology at °C. FES
F22 Ÿ Energy cost savings of INR . crore Substantial CED material is utilised to protect
car bodies from corrosion. F23 F24 MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD Making Every
Drop Count
FD, Kandivli
Featured below are select water conservation
initiatives undertaken during the year: At FD, Kandivli, a series of interventions were
implemented to save water across canteen facilities
and areas such as lavatories and washrooms. Turning the Tide with
Water Management These included: FD, Nagpur
Water scarcity in Vidarbha region is a constant
threat that looms over the operations at Farm
Division, Nagpur. Full dependency on external
sources compounds the issue.
The Paint Shop accounts for almost % of the
Unit's total water intake. A % reduction in
painting process water usage was targeted and
three projects were initiated.
Electrodialysis Reverse Osmosis Introduced an
innovative water treatment system to treat water
received at the Ultrafiltration outlet of the rinsing
stage of the Cathodic Electro-deposition (CED) line. WATER
CONSERVATION
Water is one of the key balancers of ecosystems –
natural, social, and financial, and any gap between
demand and supply of water has major
repercussions.
Extreme weather events are making water
scarcer.
At Mahindra, we follow a holistic water conservation
approach to balance the water requirement of
operations and the community. This includes
optimising consumption, recycling at scale, plus
capturing and recapturing to rejuvenate the water
sources. In F24, M&M's groundwater recharge increased by
%, and we reused % of treated water across
the Group. Notably, Igatpuri Plant operated days
without external water. At the Group level, Mahindra
Susten's eight locations are TUV-certified as water
positive. Mahindra Lifespaces saves . million
litres annually by substituting traditional concrete
curing methods, while Tech Mahindra's , water
aerators save over % of fresh water. Environmental KPIs F23 F24 Total Water
Consumption (m³) ,, ,, Note: Due to increase in production, total water consumption is
higher in F24 compared to F23. Phosphate Tank Modifications Optimised start-up
times and reduced water and energy wastage by
enhancing heat transfer efficiency and changing
pipeline design.
Alternate Water Source Redirected central RO
water to the tractor PT line, eliminating redundant
RO operations and enhancing resource allocation
efficiency. Ÿ Freshwater consumption decreased by %
and resulted in savings of , KL annually.
This water can fulfill the needs of five villages
for days. Ÿ Along with water conservation, the plant
witnessed a % reduction in operational and
maintenance costs. Ÿ Retro fitment of aerators and replacement of
regular taps with push-type ones Ÿ Adoption of pressurised low discharge spray guns
for cleaning utensils and dishes Ÿ Installation of water-efficient jet spray squat
toilets and waterless urinals
As a result, , KL of water is saved annually
in washbasins, , KL in canteen dishwashing
areas, and , KL in washrooms. REDUCTION
IN WASTE
GENERATED
Reducing consumption stands out as one of the
most effective ways to minimise waste. We enhance
our material usage through technology and
innovation, and by refining processes and boosting
efficiencies. Moreover, we are expanding circularity
efforts to extract maximum value from products
and materials throughout their lifecycle.
Key waste management highlights for F24 include: Ÿ AS Chakan's hazardous waste co-processing with
the Cement industry. Ÿ Swaraj Division, Mohali's achievement of Zero
Waste to Landfill Certification, by diverting
.% of waste. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD GROUP WIDE
ENVIRONMENTAL
STEWARDSHIP
Environmental stewardship is deeply embedded in our DNA, and every Group company pursues it with
unwavering commitment. Featured below is a peek into the diverse initiatives undertaken by the group
companies to demonstrate their dedication to promoting sustainability. PROMOTION
OF BIODIVERSITY
Preserving biodiversity is an integral part of our
Planet Positive approach and we have undertaken
number of initiatives for it.
As part of our biodiversity policy, we collaborate
with IUCN (International Union for Conservation of
Nature) and IBBI (India Business and Biodiversity
Initiative) and undertake biodiversity assessments.
In F24, biodiversity assessments were conducted
at Auto & Farm locations by the IBBI. In F24, the
Mahindra Group
planted .
million trees
across India. Planting the Seeds for
Sustainable Livelihood
AS Igatpuri
Mahindra Accelo awarded the 'Zero Waste to
Landfill' certification. Igatpuri is part of the Western Ghats, an IUCN
Biodiversity Hotspot area which is home to a variety
of flora and fauna. Due to factors such as soil
erosion, decreased rainfall, and increasing
temperatures, traditional paddy farmers of Igatpuri
were facing a constant erosion in their income. Ÿ Accelo through its innovate and effective waste A three-pronged approach that included plantation
of cash crops, technical know-how to farmers and
development of Miyawaki forests, was adopted to
enhance the farmers' income and augment the flora
and fauna count. Ÿ The company recognises the crucial role that The outcomes have been very encouraging. Over
and above benefitting thousands of farmers, it has
also helped conserve native plant species. management strategies has become one of India's
first steel service centres to earn a zero waste to
landfill certificate.
TechM fixed its internal carbon price at USD12/t.
ICP plays in helping them to reduce not only their
carbon footprint but also the system cost and
regulatory risk. Mahindra Holidays goes big on solar. Ÿ resorts of Mahindra Holidays have installed
onsite solar plants. The total capacity is . MWp.
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd
becomes the first Indian company in the 'Banks,
Diverse Financials, and Insurance' sector to have
its Science-Based Targets validated by SBTi. Ÿ The company has committed to reduce absolute
scope and GHG emissions .% by F32 from
a F23 base year and committed to reduce scope GHG emissions .% per employee within the
same timeframe. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD Mahindra Heavy Engines Ltd. focuses on energy
conservation. Ÿ To reduce power consumption in Compressors
and Air Handling Units (AHUs), Mahindra Heavy
Engines Ltd. undertook myriad initiatives which
ranged from introducing portable compressors to
adopting advanced AHU technology. These efforts
helped reduce . metric tons of carbon
emissions per day. PEOPLE Mahindra Lifespaces leads with innovative Water
Conservation Initiatives. Ÿ The company has replaced the traditional method
of using water for concrete curing during
construction with a curing compound and have
also started capturing rainwater and reusing it
for curing. This substitution resulted in an annual
water savings of @ . million litres.
Mahindra Susten is revolutionising the renewable
energy landscape. Ÿ Mahindra Susten's journey towards a greener
future is marked by a portfolio development
exceeding . GWp of renewable Independent
Power Producer (IPP) projects across India. It
recently secured a -MW solar project at
SJVN's , MW solar tender. Mahindra Logistics champions sustainable
warehousing. Ÿ With . million sq. ft. of carbon-neutral
warehousing space nationwide, the company is
setting new standards. For a nation to grow, its business landscape need
to evolve rapidly. They should be resilient enough
to withstand uncertainties, and nimble enough to
identify opportunities. Agility and adaptability too
are important factors to deliver at scale to the
changing needs of the nation. At Mahindra, we
believe that all these crucial factors stem from
our people.
Our employees (or associates) are at the core of
our commitment to driving change. By bringing
vitality, energy, and thought-provoking ideas to the
table and acting as enablers of solutions, they
inspire us to aspire more and accept no limits. In
appreciation of their efforts, we prioritise the wellbeing of our employees and provide them with a
sense of purpose; a purpose that also dovetails
with our values. Our core values - good
corporate citizenship,
professionalism, and
dignity of the individual,
inspire our associates to
embody our purpose of
#TogetherWeRise with
every endeavour. These
values are the building
blocks of our work
culture. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD CULTURE AT
MAHINDRA
FUNCTIONAL TALENT
ACCELERATORS Our purpose is to drive positive change in our
communities, beginning with our associates.
We are committed to nurturing a culture that
empowers each associate to reach their potential.
It is this culture that cements our position as a
global, innovative and compassionate brand. To nurture technical talent in Product Development,
we established the Mahindra Research Valley (MRV),
featuring design and development centres
worldwide. MRV fosters innovation and technology
for Mahindra's Auto and Farm Divisions. With the
'Tech Ladder' model, we enhance skills and
performance for over , engineers across
multiple Centres of Excellence and project functions,
ensuring a robust talent pipeline. Our purpose is further
reinforced by the three
Rise pillars and amongst
these, the 'Rise for a
More Equal World' pillar
prioritises equality for
our associates and the
communities we serve.
Our inclusive culture fosters diversity and
professional growth, especially for women. Through
extensive training and leadership programmes, we
prepare our workforce for the future. Our dynamic
internal mobility options enable both vertical and
horizontal career progression across businesses,
markets, and organisational levels. Leveraging our
scale and depth, we offer abundant opportunities
for personal and professional advancement. PERFORMANCEORIENTED
REMUNERATION
Our compensation policies emphasise meritocracy
and ESG initiatives, with variable pay tied to
hierarchy and performance goals. Parameters like
ROE, ESG Performance Index and Employee
Engagement drive our approach. Additionally, senior
executives benefit from an Employee Stock Option
Programme, aligning shareholder and employee
interests. Our Technology Academy continued to focus on
developing deep skills across a range of emerging
technology areas through a combination of inperson and online bootcamps.
MAHINDRA LEADERSHIP
UNIVERSITY
The Mahindra Leadership University (MLU) continued
to impact through high-velocity programmes
throughout F24.: TALENT
MANAGEMENT
AND
LEADERSHIP
DEVELOPMENT
We continue to fuel our talent management process
by attracting and retaining top talent across the
Group, creating development journeys, and building
succession strength. Stimulating 'People
Conversations' in the process enables talent
movements across sectors on the basis of individual
strengths and aspirations. Each sector drives talent
management and talent development through the
respective Sector Talent Councils. Mahindra Accelerated
Leadership Track (MALT)
This innovative accelerator programme, in
partnership with Carnegie Mellon University, fasttracks the career trajectories of our talented
individuals. A batch of associates graduated
successfully in January , while another batch
of associates started in the same month. In F24, the MLU
conducted +
,+
,+
programmes that saw learners benefit with over learning-hours. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD Mahindra Leaders
Programme (MLP) DIGITAL LEARNING
INITIATIVES The MLP attracts top talent from leading B-Schools,
fostering performance and scalability. It bolsters
Mahindra's 'Employer of Choice' status, creating a
robust talent pool for future growth. The programme
offers a continuous influx of young talent, now
focussing on Function-specific tracks like Sales,
Manufacturing, HR, Finance and Technology. MLP
participants spend their first year in the Group
Strategy Office, gaining exposure to diverse sectors
and functions, laying the foundation for their careers. As a testament to our skills-first approach to
capability development, our e-learning platforms
have seen % adoption rate and more than million learning resources viewed. We anticipate
further demand for learning content in F25. Here
are some ways in which we are scaling digitally:
Future Shapers
This programme empowers future leaders and
drives growth. With two successful batches already
completed, we are partnering with Harvard
University and leading consulting firms for
excellence. The second batch of Future Shapers
completed their programme in F24. Ÿ Strategic partnerships with key content partners
such as Udemy, HMM Spark etc. Ÿ Over + initiatives were run in F24 to enhance
engagement on the EdCast platform by
Cornerstone. Ÿ Digital Learning World management system offers
diverse learning experiences via online macro
learning and virtual, and classroom training. Ÿ Our engagement rates have become benchmarks
for Cornerstone APJ region leading us to be
recognised by the ETHR Future Skills Award on
'Best Approach to Implementing an LxP Platform'.
MAHINDRA SKILL
EXCELLENCE
This internal platform helps our shopfloor
associates develop their capabilities and take on
more leadership roles. In F24, over , associates
participated from across all manufacturing units. Back to the
Classroom
MLU, Nashik Development Programmes The Nashik campus of MLU, located within a km
radius of Mahindra plants, has been developed as a
collaborative environment to fuel employee
productivity and bring more innovations to the table. Ÿ The year-long Future HR Leaders Programme,
launched in F24, empowers mid-level HR
professionals with valuable business, functional,
and leadership skills. Ÿ Successfully concluded the Emerging Finance
Leaders Programme that was launched in F23.
The programme, designed in collaboration with IIM,
Ahmedabad, equipped emerging finance leaders
with skills to thrive in their careers. Ÿ Introduced the 'She Is On The Rise' Programme
to empower and develop women leaders at junior
level. This initiative aims to foster diversity,
inclusivity, and gender equality, promoting the
growth and advancement of women professionals. With its top-notch
facilities, this Campus can
accommodate over learners simultaneously
and hosts on an average
,+ learners each
year.
Our digital classrooms connect with learners across
different regions, enabling a rich, interactive and
seamless learning experience. F24 saw a strong
'Back to Classroom' trend, and the campus hosted
more than , learners over the year with an
average score of . in terms of on-campus
experience. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM
Once the capacities have been built, they need to be
monitored and managed for scaled up outcomes. To
continually encourage outperformance, our
Performance Management System is built on strong
principles of empowerment and meritocracy.
Leaders foster an environment that encourages
employees to demonstrate the right behaviour and
deliver outstanding results.
To better the performance of individuals at every
stage across the performance cycle from April
to March, a three-step process of Goal Setting,
Mid-Year Review and Annual Appraisal offers
feedback by People Managers. Key decisions are
based on Performance and Leadership Behaviour
Scores and discussions amongst the talent panels
at different levels. Learning & Growth Plan serves as
a great tool for future roles, skill development and
career growth of existing employees. The Performance
Management System
drives the three key
Mahindra Leadership
Behaviours: Collaboration,
Agility, and Boldness DIVERSITY,
EQUITY AND
INCLUSION
At Mahindra, Diversity & Inclusion drive our
commitment to a brighter future, eliminating gender
and disability bias in employment and advancement.
We monitor diversity metrics closely, ensuring
representation in leadership and talent programmes.
Our Group Diversity Council employs a metricsdriven scorecard, particularly emphasising gender
diversity. Through our Equal Opportunity Policy,
recruits receive comprehensive training, including
the 'Speak Up' campaign for POSH awareness and
refresher modules from Ethics Counsellors,
empowering them to excel in their roles and
contribute to a culture of inclusion.
ENABLING POLICIES
Our HR policies have been reviewed, revised and
framed keeping our employees at the core: Ÿ Employee Benefits Include professional and
medical allowance, education assistance, mobile
reimbursement, option of sabbatical, etc. Ÿ Work Conditions Cover flexible working hours
policy, WFH arrangements, and part-time work
options etc. Ÿ Family Benefits Include equal opportunities for
all and Education Assistance Policy, to support all
employees' work-life balance. FOCUSSED HIRING TALENT MANAGEMENT Our 'Hire Right' programme offers comprehensive
training to HR managers, fostering skills to eradicate
biases in hiring and promote equitable job
descriptions. We incentivise diversity through a
% bonus for female referrals, diversifying our
talent pool. We are committed to advancing the career
development journey of women at all levels and
providing them with the chance to interact with
senior leaders through various initiatives. Our hiring process ensures diversity by maintaining
varied interview slates. Tracking diversity metrics
underscores our commitment to DEI accountability.
The 'Revive' programme supports women returning
to work, reignites careers and fosters a community. The 'Women Mentoring' programme for the
managerial band provides career guidance to
women from senior leaders, enabling them to excel
in their career paths. ‘Generation Valuable', a special
mentorship programme by Valuable , empowers
individuals with disabilities to pursue executive
leadership and fosters disability inclusion. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD TRANSFORMATIONAL
WORK CULTURE
M&M has a workforce of , permanent and
non-permanent employees. % of the permanent
workforce
is unionised. The Comprehensive
Five-Year Maternity
Policy
At Mahindra, we recognise the unique
challenges faced by working mothers,
especially in the first five years of
motherhood. To support them, in F24, we
introduced a comprehensive -year
maternity policy. It starts with one year of
pre-childbirth support, prioritising comfort
during commutes and business travel.
The policy includes a % reimbursement
for up to two IVF cycles and a week of paid
leave. New mothers receive a -week
maternity leave, and there is provision for a
-day leave in the unfortunate event of a
miscarriage. Post-maternity, mothers benefit
from six months of flexible work and months of hybrid work options, tailored to
their needs. The Transformational Work Culture initiative aims to
enhance productivity and create a competitive shopfloor eco-system. Initiative for cell members include
'Nayi Soch - Naya Dristikon’, ‘i4’-idea generation
programme, ‘Rise Award’ for associates and
‘Employee of The Year’ programme for associates.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
Mahindra's industrial relations remained positive at
all manufacturing sites, with successful long-term
wage and bonus settlements. Our focus on a
transformative work culture led to zero production
loss in F24.
HEALTH & SAFETY Ensuring Future
Readiness through
Compliance
At the core of a thriving workplace lies the
safety and dignity of every individual,
fostering a culture of happiness and
productivity on a large scale. Mahindra's
commitment to the Prevention of Sexual
Harassment at Workplace (POSH) campaign
ensures a safe environment through
comprehensive awareness initiatives. These
include induction training, emailers and
translations across vernacular languages.
All employees also undergo training on the
Code of Conduct, Anti Bribery and Anti
Corruption (ABAC) & Human Rights to
ensure appropriate behaviour. Additionally,
we invest in functional programmes to
ensure that the workforce is equipped with
future-ready skills such as training on
behaviour-based safety, quality tools, TPM,
and upskilling programmes such as Robotics,
Mechatronics, Auto Electric Diagnostics,
Electric Vehicle Technology etc. India's achievement comes with prioritising
employee safety by implementing the highest safety
standards and upgrading the rigorous procedures in
line with technological advancements and best
practices. Ÿ Employee Health Index' is maintained at an
individual level for employees who require
focussed counselling and monitoring. Ÿ The 'Wellness App' is available to employees for
quick access to critical health-related information. Ÿ Experts led enriching sessions for employees and
their families on mental and emotional well-being,
nutrition, and healthy lifestyles, promoting holistic
health. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD EMPOWERING
GIRLS
PROJECT NANHI KALI INR SOCIAL . cr invested in CSR initiatives At Mahindra, we are committed to delivering, at
scale, the value that nurtures the very fabric of
society. India has seen a tremendous growth story in
recent years, and it is our continuing endeavour to
ensure that all Indians across the rural-urban divide
have access to every opportunity to make their lives
happier and more fulfilling. By enabling education,
cascading new age as
well as life skills and
employability skills, and
addressing environmental
concerns, we are creating
the tides for everyone to
rise.
Across our CSR initiatives, we place a special
focus on empowering girls and women with
equal opportunities which not only benefits
them individually but has a ripple effect on their
communities and the environment.
When girls and women have access to education,
employment, and decision-making roles, there is
a huge social impact and value created for
society over the long term. At Mahindra, our pillar
of Rise for a More Equal World is characterised
by our CSR initiatives of providing equal
opportunities to girls and women and showing
compassion towards the environment. In F24, we elevated our social impact with an
investment of INR . crore in CSR initiatives
to deliver change at scale. Looking forward, our
mission remains steadfast: to construct a future
that is both equitable and environmentally
sustainable for all. Our flagship CSR initiative, Project Nanhi Kali,
continues to empower underprivileged girls across
India by supporting their education. Since its
inception, Project Nanhi Kali has uplifted ,,
underprivileged girls in states through
educational support. It creates girl-friendly
ecosystems in underserved communities across
India through regular engagements with parents
and community stakeholders.
Project Nanhi Kali provides comprehensive support
in the form of: Ÿ Educational support till class at government
schools and access to personalised AI-based
learning on digital tablets. Ÿ A yearly material kit containing a school bag, vital
school supplies, and feminine hygiene essentials. Ÿ A professionally designed sports curriculum to
promote holistic development. CSR
MANAGEMENT
Our key social materiality issue is CSR
management, where we focus on formulating
community-centric policies and implementing a
sustainable strategy that addresses major societal
issues through our projects across the nation.
In alignment with the Group's RISE Philosophy,
CSR at Mahindra is an integral part of the business.
There is a defined CSR Policy which outlines the
CSR strategy of investing in projects that address
nation building priorities as well as focus on local
developmental needs across all the locations of
the company. To align with the recommendations of the National
Education Policy, Project Nanhi Kali introduced a
Digital Equalizer for Girls (DEFG) programme for
adolescent girls. The curriculum covers training in
digital literacy, critical thinking abilities, problemsolving, collaboration, creativity, and communication.
In F24, Project Nanhi Kali helped ,,
disadvantaged girls in states. The Mahindra Group
backed , girls, with Mahindra & Mahindra
directly supporting , of them. Also, the DEFG
program trained , more girls in states.
Among them, Mahindra Group supported a total of
, girls, with , directly supported by
Mahindra & Mahindra. Since inception of
Project Nanhi Kali, ,,
underprivileged girls in states uplifted through
educational support MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD EMPOWERING
WOMEN
India's women are the co-authors of its economic growth story. Addressing the concerning decline in the female
labour force participation rate has thus become a top national priority. The Mahindra Group aims to play a
pivotal role in empowering women economically by offering vital skills training and creating job opportunities
across various sectors. The women experienced different skilling interventions, as detailed below: AGRI SKILLING
EMPLOYABILITY SKILLING
The Group's flagship employability skills program,
Mahindra Pride Classrooms (MPC), was launched as a
youth skilling initiative inclusive of boys and has now
evolved into an all-women program to support the
nation's priority of increasing women's labour force
participation in the formal economy. Since its
inception, the Program has empowered ,,
youth with employability skills.
Mahindra Pride Classrooms offer - hour
training modules led by expert trainers for final-year
female students in Government and Governmentaided Colleges, ITIs, and Polytechnic Institutes across
India. The modules include digital literacy and life
skills that aim to make the candidates more “jobready” and employable. Assessments are a key part
of the program design and successful candidates are
provided with certification at the end of the course.
In F24, the Mahindra Group supported ,,
women studying in , colleges. Of these,
,, women were trained with support provided
by M&M. An additional , women underwent
employability skills training through another project
under this initiative with support provided by M&M.
DOMAIN SKILLING Since its inception,
the women's empowerment
programme at Mahindra
Group has positively
influenced ,,
women IN F24 alone,
the Mahindra Group
supported the skilling of ,,
women In response to the evolving needs of the workforce,
our women's empowerment program also focuses
on equipping women with domain-specific skills
tailored to the automotive, IT, ITES/hospitality,
healthcare, and apparel industries across states.
Through a comprehensive curriculum, participating
women gain in-depth knowledge of industry
practices, regulations, and technological
advancements relevant to these sectors. Under this
initiative, the Mahindra Group trained ,
women for domain skills. Of these , women
were trained by M&M. Regenerative Agriculture
The main objective of the Project was to enable
women farmers to use regenerative agriculture
practices to improve soil fertility and increase crop
productivity, ensuring food and nutrition security
for their families, along with enhanced income
levels. Through this Project, , women farmers
from Moga and Tarn Taran in Punjab, Shravasti in
UP and Wardha in Maharashtra were provided
knowledge in regenerative farming practices. This
intervention helped women farmers reduce their
agriculture input costs and increase income from
the sale of crops.
Through this Project, , women farmers were provided
knowledge in regenerative
farming practices. Farm Skilling
Under the farm skilling initiative of PRERNA, M&M
focuses on women farmers with an objective of
providing exposure to good agricultural and farm
mechanisation practices to augment their farmbased livelihood which include training and advisory
services like soil health, access to gender-friendly
farm equipment, linkages to Government welfare
support initiatives, and resource-efficient agriculture
methodologies for enhancing crop productivity.
, women farmers were supported under this
farm-based skilling initiative in F24. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - RISE FOR A
MORE EQUAL WORLD ENVIRONMENT
CONSERVATION
Integrating environmental conservation into CSR
initiatives not only benefits the environment but
also plays a crucial role in fostering sustainable
economic growth and development in emerging
economies like India. EMPLOYEE
VOLUNTEERING PROJECT HARIYALI
This flagship afforestation initiative of the Group
continues to enrich greenery and restore ecological
balance. It uplifts marginalised farmers through
training in modern farming techniques, revitalising
soil, improving water retention, and boosting soil
organic carbon levels. In F24, the Mahindra Group planted a total of
. million trees of which Mahindra & Mahindra
planted . million trees. As a result of this project,
the livelihoods of , tribal farmer families were
enhanced. varieties of fruit, forest and shade
trees were planted, further contributing to
biodiversity, and improving the quality of soil and
crops. In addition to our primary CSR initiatives, employee
volunteering plays a significant role in our
commitment to making a difference and empowering
others on a large scale. Through platforms like
ESOPs and MySeva, Mahindra Group employees
dedicate their time to various social causes, creating
substantial impact within communities. In F24, a total of ,
employees invested WATER
CONSERVATION ,,
person-hours Water conservation is vital for sustainable
community development, especially in water-scarce
areas. Our diverse projects focus on capacity
building in water conservation and crop
diversification, soil erosion prevention, improving soil
health, and creating/rejuvenating water harvesting
structures. These efforts increase water harvesting
potential for irrigation along with improved agri
yield for sustained livelihoods. Since its inception,
Project Hariyali has
contributed to planting . million trees
notably . million in
Araku, supporting the
livelihoods of over ,
tribal farmer families. In F24, Mahindra & Mahindra undertook Watershed
Development Fund (WDF) Projects in collaboration
with NABARD at Igatpuri and Akole Block of Nashik
and Ahmednagar Districts of Maharashtra, for the
development of the Kadva River Basin, covering
around villages. The project extended support
to , farmers via interventions encompassing
soil and water conservation, crop diversification,
and livelihood training. Additionally, Mahindra &
Mahindra has worked in other geographies and
deployed region-specific water management
interventions covering states. Through all these initiatives, water harvesting
structures have been created and renovated, and
, lakh litres of water harvesting potential
created, resulting in an increase in irrigation
potential across , ha. Cumulatively , ha
was covered under water management initiatives
and , farmers and community members have
benefitted through water conservation.
Through these initiatives, water harvesting
structures have been
created and renovated, and , lakh litres
of water harvesting
potential created. through these platforms,
of which , Mahindra
& Mahindra employees
contributed ,
person-hours.
Mahindra Volunteering Day was held on
International Volunteering Day, 5th December, ,
where , enthusiastic volunteers contributed
, person-hours.
The event benefitted ,, individuals, with
, units of blood collected, , tree saplings
planted, and , kgs of waste/plastic collected. ANNUAL REPORT
-
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD. CORPORATE
INFORMATION CORPORATE
INFORMATION BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Chairman Dr. Anish Shah Managing Director and
Chief Executive O cer Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Executive Director and
CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Lead Independent Director Dr. Vishakha N. Desai* Independent Director Mr. T. N. Manoharan Independent Director COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Audit
Committee Stakeholders
Relationship
Committee Governance, Nomination
and Remuneration
Committee Mr. T. N. Manoharan Chairman Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Chairman Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Chairman Ms. Shikha Sharma Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Ms. Shikha Sharma Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Dr. Vishakha N. Desai* Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Ms. Nisaba Godrej Corporate
Social Responsibility
Committee Risk
Management
Committee Strategic
Investment
Committee Dr. Vishakha N. Desai* Chairperson Mr. T. N. Manoharan Chairman Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Chairman Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Mr. T. N. Manoharan Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta# Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Ms. Shikha Sharma Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Independent Director Ms. Shikha Sharma Independent Director Key Managerial
Personnel Mr. Manoj Bhat President & Group Chief Financial O cer Mr. Narayan Shankar Company Secretary Upto May, Mr. Amarjyoti Barua Ms. Nisaba Godrej President & Group Chief Financial O cer Independent Director With e ect from May, Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Independent Director Bankers Auditors Advocates Ms. Padmasree Warrior** Axis Bank Limited B S R & Co. LLP
14th Floor,
Central B Wing and
North C Wing,
Nesco IT Park ,
Nesco Center,
Western Express Highway,
Goregaon (East),
Mumbai - ,
India. Khaitan & Co.
One World Centre,
Tower ,
10th and 13th Floor,
, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Mumbai - ,
India. Independent Director Mr. Ranjan Pant** Non-Executive and
Non-Independent Director Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo** Nominee of Life Insurance
Corporation of India Bank of America N.A.
Bank of India
Central Bank of India
HDFC Bank Limited
JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A.
Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited
Standard Chartered Bank
State Bank of India *Upto April, **Appointed with e ect from May, #
Appointed as Chairman of the Committee
with e ect from May, Registered O ce: Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai - , India. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT BOARD’S REPORT Dear Shareholders
Your Directors present their Report together with the
Audited Financial Statements of your Company for the year
ended 31st March, . A. FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS (Rs. in crores) Standalone
Particulars Revenue from Operations............ ,. ,. ,,. ,,. Income
from
investment
related
to
subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures.... ,. ,. . . Other income........................................ ,. . ,. ,. Profit before Depreciation,
Finance Costs, Exceptional
items, Share of profit of
associates and joint ventures
and Taxation.......................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Depreciation, Amortisation
and Impairment Expenses............ ,. ,. ,. ,. Profit before Finance Costs,
Exceptional items, Share of
profit of associates and joint
ventures and Taxation.................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Finance Costs........................... . . ,. ,. Profit before Exceptional items,
Share of profit of associates
and joint ventures and Taxation ,. ,. ,. ,. Add: Share of profit of
associates and joint ventures.... – – ,. ,. Profit before Exceptional items
and Taxation.......................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Add: Exceptional items................... – (,.) – ,. Profit before Taxation..................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Tax Expense.............................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Profit for the year............................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Owners of the Company............... ,. ,. ,. ,. Non-controlling interest ............... – – ,. ,. Balance of profit for earlier
years............................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. Profits
available
for
appropriation......................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Dividend Paid on Equity
Shares......................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Add: Other adjustment to
retained earnings$.............................. . (.) . . Balance carried forward................ ,. ,. ,. ,. Profit/(Loss) for
attributable to : $ Consolidated the year  or details refer to ‘Statement of Changes in Equity’ in the Standalone Financial Statements and
F
‘Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity’ in the Consolidated Financial Statements respectively
forming part of the Annual Report. Financial Year witnessed demand resilience regardless
of tightening financial conditions, simmering geo-political
risks and adverse weather patterns.
For instance, the US Federal Reserve increased policy rates
to the highest level in over two decades, but elevated
Government spending supported tight labour market
conditions. Hot wars near the Black Sea, the Red Sea and the
Gaza strip pushed up trading costs, however this came against
a backdrop of low input cost pressures brought about by
improving supply chain conditions and expectations of weak
global growth. Finally, El Nino conditions led to deficient rains
in India impacting rural incomes which were partly offset by
stronger construction activity. In this midst, aggressive output
curbs announced by OPEC pushed up crude oil prices close
to USD /bbl during the year; fortunately, higher supply
from the Americas brought temporary respite to fuel costs.
As a result of countervailing factors, demand momentum and
consumer sentiment were stronger than expected resulting
in central banks tightening financing conditions even further
and pushing policy rate cut expectations deeper into Financial
Year .
In India, the growth push came from stronger services
exports, leveraged consumption from wealthier households
and public infrastructure capex. India’s real GDP grew at over
% during the last three quarters of Calendar Year .
The ongoing revival in private sector project announcements
portends sustained momentum in job creation going into
Financial Year .
The Profit for the year before Depreciation, Finance Costs,
Exceptional items and Taxation recorded an increase of
.% at Rs. ,. crores as against Rs. ,.
crores in the previous year. Profit after tax increased by
.% at Rs. ,. crores as against Rs. ,.
crores in the previous year.
Your Company remains committed to its extensive cost
restructuring initiatives and efficiency enhancements, yielding
substantial savings. By maintaining a sharp focus on cost
controls, streamlining processes, and introducing innovative
products that consistently surpass customer expectations,
your Company sustains profitable growth despite the current
economic conditions. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Earnings Per Share (EPS)
The Standalone basic EPS of the Company stood at Rs. .
for the Financial Year ended 31st March, as against
Rs. . for the Financial Year ended 31st March, and
Diluted EPS stood at Rs. . as against Rs. . in the
previous year.
Details of Material Changes from the end of the Financial
Year till the date of this Report
No material changes and commitments have occurred after
the closure of the Financial Year - till the date of
this Report, which would affect the financial position of
your Company. Performance Review Automotive Sector* Your Company’s Automotive Sector posted total sales of
,, vehicles (,, four-wheelers and , threewheelers) as against a total of ,, vehicles (,,
four-wheelers and , three-wheelers) in the previous
year, registering a growth of .%.
In the domestic market, your Company sold a total of
,, vehicles as compared to ,, vehicles in the
previous year, resulting in a growth of .%.
In the Passenger Vehicle (PV) segment, your Company sold
,, vehicles [including ,, Utility Vehicles (UVs)
and Vans] as compared to the previous year’s volume of
,, vehicles [including ,, Utility Vehicles (UVs),
, Vans and Cars] registering a growth of %.
In the Commercial Vehicle (CV) segment, your Company
sold ,, vehicles [including , vehicles
<2T GVW, ,, vehicles between -.5T GVW, ,
Light Commercial Vehicles (LCVs) in the .5T-.5T segment,
, vehicles in the .5T-12T GVW segment, , Heavy
Commercial Vehicles (HCVs) and , LCV Passenger]
registering a growth of .% over the previous year’s
volumes of ,, vehicles [including , vehicles
<2T GVW, ,, vehicles between -.5T GVW, ,
LCVs in the .5T-.5T segment, , vehicles in the .‑12T
GVW segment, , HCVs and , LCV Passenger].
In the three-wheeler segment, your Company sold ,
three-wheelers in the domestic market, registering a growth
of .% over the previous year’s volume of ,
three-wheelers.
For the year under review, the Indian automotive industry
(except 2W) grew by .%, with the PV industry growth
of .% and CV industry growth of .%. The UV segment showed growth of .%. Within the CV industry, the LCV
goods <.5T segment de-grew by .% while the Medium
and Heavy Commercial Vehicles (MHCV) Goods Segment
de-grew by .%.
Your Company’s UV volumes stood at ,, units, a
growth of .%. The UV market share for your Company
stood at .%. Scorpio, Thar, XUV700 and Bolero continued
to be strong brands for your Company in the UV segment.
In the LCV<.5T segment, your Company retained its No. position with .% Market Share. Your Company sold a
total of ,, vehicles in this segment, which is a growth
of .% over the previous year.
In the MHCV Goods Segment, your Company sold ,
trucks as against , trucks in the previous year. This is a
growth of .%. Your Company’s market share in the MHCV
segment stands at .%.
Your Company is the pioneer for Electric Vehicles (EVs) in India,
and for the year under review, in the electric three-wheeler
segment, your Company sold , vehicles as against
, vehicles in the previous year, with a growth of .%.
In the electric four-wheeler segment, your Company sold ,
vehicles as against , vehicles in the previous year.
During the year under review, your Company posted an export
volume of , vehicles as against the previous year’s
exports of , vehicles representing a de-growth of .%.
The sales of spare parts for the year stood at Rs. ,.
crores (including exports of Rs. . crores) as compared to
Rs. ,. crores (including exports of Rs. . crores)
in the previous year, registering a growth of .%.
* The figures include sales made by subsidiary Mahindra Last
Mile Mobility Limited with effect from 1st September, . Farm Equipment Sector Your Company’s Farm Equipment Sector recorded total sales
of ,, tractors (domestic + export) as against ,,
tractors sold in the previous year. These figures for the current
year sales and previous year sales include tractors sold under
the Trakstar brand, which is the third brand of your Company
under the subsidiary Gromax Agri Equipment Limited.
For the year under review, the tractor industry in India
recorded sales of ,, tractors, a de-growth of .%.
Tractor Industry recorded de-growth in Financial Year on account of erratic monsoon due to El Nino, lesser water
availability and high base of FY23. Southern and Western
states continue to face severe stress. Shift of Chaitra Navratri
from March to April has also contributed in significant
industry drop. In the domestic market, your Company sold ,,
Tractors, as compared to ,, Tractors in the previous
year (these figures include tractors sold by Gromax Agri
Equipment Limited), recording a de-growth of .%. It is
the 2nd highest ever volume sold by your Company. With
a market share at .%, a gain of .% over previous
year, your Company remains the Market Leader for the
41st consecutive year.
Your Company has launched next generation product
platforms in FY like Mahindra OJA, Swaraj ‘Target’ and
‘Naya Swaraj’, all of which have significantly contributed to a
good performance.
Your Company continues to focus on growing the farm
mechanisation space, by offering affordable mechanisation
solutions. The portfolio comprises of Rotavators, Cultivators,
Harvesters, Rice Transplanters, Balers and Sprayers.
For the year under review, your Company exported ,
tractors which is a de-growth of .% over the previous
year. Overall exports are under pressure due to global slow
down.
Net Sales of Spare parts for the Financial Year stood
at Rs. ,. crores (including exports of Rs. crores)
as compared to Rs. ,. crores (including exports
of Rs. . crores) in the previous Financial Year ,
registering a growth of .%.
Please refer to the paragraph on Operating Results in the
Management Discussion & Analysis section for detailed analysis. Other Businesses Powerol Mahindra Powerol has been significantly ruling the power
back-up industry from last + years. Your Company is at
No. position in overall Power generation market by volume.
Mahindra Powerol is spread across + sales and service
centres nationwide with over overseas locations. In
alignment with this strategy, Powerol’s unique business
model evenly allocates revenue between product sales
and services, with each accounting for %. In addition
to Telecom, Powerol has also been focusing on increasing
the retail market share by HkVA range extensions. With the
successful launch of CPCB4+ gensets, your Company has
already sold more than units in the market so far.
Powerol’s focus on green energy, has also initiated EV charger
business for home charger installations. It has already
installed over , chargers nationwide. Accompanied with
this, Powerol is also into Energy Storage Solutions segments
through Li-ion batteries. Construction Equipment
For the year under review, your Company (under the Mahindra
EarthMaster brand) sold , Backhoe Loaders (BHLs),
a % increase as against sold in the previous year.
Your Company also has a presence in the Road Construction
Equipment Business through motor graders (under the
Mahindra RoadMaster brand).
For the year under review, your Company sold motor
graders, a .% increase as against sold in the previous
year. Your Company also has a presence in the Sugar Cane
Haulage Market (under the Mahindra HaulMaster brand) in
the export market. The BHL industry grew by % and the
motor grader industry grew by % due to increased focus
from the Government of India on infrastructure.
Two-Wheeler Business
In line with the strategy for the two-wheeler business, your
Company through its subsidiary, Classic Legends Private
Limited had re-introduced the iconic brands ‘Jawa’ and ‘Yezdi’
to the Indian market in the Financial Year and respectively. During Financial Year -, ‘ Bobber’ was
introduced and during Financial Year -, ‘Jawa ’
was introduced to the Indian market. In addition, the Company
forayed into new international markets through iconic British
brand BSA in UK and European markets.
The volumes in domestic market for Financial Year ‑
got impacted with delays in launching improved products
and subdued marketing spend. Exports volume fell owing to
slowdown in the UK/European economies and the RussiaUkraine conflicts, impacting demand sentiments. However,
with tied-up funding for the next level of growth and new
external investors coming on board, the focus for FY25 is on
Product improvements, New launches, Dealer developments,
Network expansion, Cost reductions, to grow the volumes and
improve the margins multi-fold in FY25 and going forward. Current Year’s review
During the period 1st April, to 15th May, , ,
vehicles were produced as against , vehicles and
, vehicles were dispatched as against , vehicles
during the corresponding period in the last year. During the
same period , tractors were produced and ,
tractors dispatched as against , tractors produced and
, tractors dispatched during the corresponding period
in the previous year.
Global growth is holding up better than expected despite the
simmering conflict in Russia-Ukraine, escalation of conflict in
Israel-Palestine and non-state actors disrupting trade near the MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Red Sea, which has pushed out policy rate cut expectations
deeper into Financial Year . Fortunately, improvement
in supply chain conditions has lowered input cost pressures
providing households some respite against rising cost of living. of monetary easing, robust profitability of large corporates
and the anticipated productivity gains related to artificial
intelligence. With Russia on sanctions, war in Middle East and
production cuts by OPEC+, Crude prices remained volatile. In India, El Nino conditions have disrupted agricultural
output, but lower input costs and higher construction
activity is supporting rural income growth. The growth
push in Financial Year came from services exports,
leveraged consumption by wealthier households and public
sector infrastructure spending. Continuation of leveraged
consumption and an uptick in investments should support
growth in Financial Year , even as expectations of above
normal monsoons improve agricultural incomes and lower
inflation. The economy is benefiting from revival in corporate
sector project announcements and improving consumer
sentiment, which augurs well for job generation in Financial
Year . From the supply side, sustained improvement in
growth is likely post general elections in India, led by financial
services, manufacturing, and construction sectors. India seized global spotlight, emerging as the fastest
growing major economy of the world in - coupled
with navigating diplomatic challenges with finesse. India’s
economic activity exhibited resilience with GDP growth for
FY - pegged at .%, buoyed by strong domestic
demand and backed by robust macroeconomic fundamentals. Finance
Financial Year - saw global geopolitics reaching a pivotal
moment, with the tensions affecting international relations
on every continent. The global economic recovery proved
surprisingly resilient - inflation receded significantly in most
major economies, recession was mostly avoided, supply chain
disruption eased considerably, and labour markets remained
historically tight. Global growth rose by an estimated .% in
, up from .% in , largely due to resilience in the
United States and several large emerging markets, coupled
with more fiscal support in China. The International Monetary
Fund (“IMF”) forecasts the world economy to continue growing
at .% during and , as well.
Decisive monetary policy actions by central banks around
the world led to sharp disinflation process. Headline inflation
fell to .% in from a peak of .% in and is set
to fall further in . However, the path of future rate cuts
is not yet clear as commodity price spikes stemming from
geopolitical tensions, including those from the war in Ukraine
and the conflict in Middle East could, along with persistent
core inflation, raise interest rate expectations. Financial
market expectations of US policy rate reductions this year
have been pared back significantly.
The US dollar (DXY) remained strong in the wake of resilient
economic growth and hawkish Fed policy commentary. Global
equity markets ended the financial year on a high with
strongest performance since , led by a bull run in major
markets such as the US, India and Japan on the prospect The upturn in the investment cycle, broad-based revival in
manufacturing and services sectors and Government’s capex
push aided growth. Consumer price inflation (CPI) dropped
to .% from .% in previous year on account of base
effect, normal monsoon and supply side interventions. The
RBI Monetary Policy Committee kept the policy repo rate
unchanged at .% since its last rate hike in February
. Bank credit growth remained robust with improving
economic activity, increasing by .% (y-o-y) as at March
. Corporate Borrowing Costs generally hardened, amidst
tightening of liquidity conditions.
The Indian Rupee largely remained rangebound, depreciating
by .% during the year, due to strong macroeconomic
fundamentals and improvements in India’s external position
with the moderation in the current account deficit (CAD),
revival of capital flows, and rising foreign exchange reserves.
India’s foreign exchange reserves hit a record high of
US$ . billion on 29th March, . Net FPI inflows at
US$ . billion in - were the highest since -.
Amidst the aforesaid backdrop, the Bankers continue to rate
your Company as a prime customer and extend facilities/
services at prime rates. Your Company follows a prudent
financial policy and aims not to exceed an optimum financial
gearing at any time. The Company’s Gross Debt to Equity
Ratio is . as at 31st March, . Further, your Company
continued to focus on managing cash efficiently and ensured
that it had adequate liquidity and back-up lines of credit.
During the year, your Company raised short term trade
finance of Rs. crores under RBI’s interest equalization
scheme. Sufficient liquidity prompted pre-repayment of some
of the long term borrowings. Further, during the year, your
Company repaid/prepaid Rs. ,. crores of long-term
borrowings whilst maintaining an optimum liquidity level of
Rs. , crores as at 31st March, .
Further, your Company has been rated by CRISIL Ratings Limited
(“CRISIL”), ICRA Limited (“ICRA”), India Ratings and Research
Private Limited (“India Ratings”) and CARE Ratings Limited (“CARE”) for its Banking facilities. All have re-affirmed the highest
credit rating for your Company’s Short-Term facilities. For Long
Term facilities and Non-Convertible Debentures, CRISIL, ICRA,
CARE and India Ratings have re-affirmed their credit ratings of
CRISIL AAA/Stable, [ICRA]AAA (stable), CARE AAA; Stable, and
IND AAA/Stable for the respective facilities rated by them. With
the above rating affirmations, your Company continues to enjoy
the highest level of rating from all Major Rating Agencies at
the same time.
The AAA rating indicates the highest degree of safety
regarding timely servicing of financial obligations and is also
a vote of confidence reposed in your Company’s Management
by the rating agencies. It is an acknowledgement of the strong
credit profile of your Company over the years, resilience in
earnings despite cyclical upturns/downturns, robust financial
flexibility arising from the significant market value of its
holdings and prudent management.
Your Company is a “Large Corporate” as per the criteria
specified under Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”)
Operational Circular No. SEBI/HO/DDHS/P/CIR//
dated 10th August, , as amended from time to time.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the said
Circular and has made required disclosures in this regard. Redemption of Non-Convertible Debentures
As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, during the year
under review, your Company has fully redeemed the following
Unsecured Listed, Rated Redeemable Non-Convertible
Debentures (“NCDs”) issued on private placement basis on
the due dates or as per the respective terms of issue:
Particulars of
NCDs ISIN Amount
(in Rs.) Issue date Date of
Redemption M&M .% , Debentures
of Rs. ,,
each INE101A08096 ,
crores 20th April, 20th April, (Redeemed upon
Maturity as per
the terms of the
issue) M&M .% , Debentures
of Rs. ,,
each INE101A08104 ,
crores 24th April, 24th April, (Redeemed upon
Maturity as per
the terms of the
issue) M&M .% Debentures of
Rs. ,, each INE101A08112 crores 8th June, 8th June, (redeemed prior
to Maturity
pursuant to
Put Option
exercised by all
the Debenture
holders to
redeem the
NCDs as per
the terms of the
issue.) Investor Relations (IR)
Your Company always believes in striving hard to achieve
excellence and leading from the front with adhering to best
practices in IR while maintaining a relationship of trust with
investors and analysts.
In the Financial Year , your Company increased its interaction
with investors through various conferences and conducted inperson individual, group, video and audio conference calls. The
leadership, including the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer, ED & CEO - Auto & Farm Sector, Group CFO and Head
Group Strategy spent significant time interacting with investors
to communicate the strategic direction for the business, capital
allocation policy, plan for scaling up growth gems, various ESG
activities undertaken by the Group and addressing investor/
analyst queries and concerns.
During the year, your Company interacted with more than ,
Indian and Foreign investors and analysts (excluding quarterly
earnings calls, analyst meets and specific event related meets).
All events hosted in the Financial Year including quarterly
earnings calls, analyst meets, product launch events, etc. were
well attended by investors and analysts.
Your Company ensures that critical information about the
Company is available to all the investors by uploading all
such information on the Company’s website. Dividend
As per the Dividend Distribution Policy, dividend payout would
have to be determined based on available financial resources,
investment requirements and taking into account optimal
shareholder return. Within these parameters, the Company
would endeavour to maintain a total dividend pay-out ratio in
the range of % to % of the annual standalone Profits
after Tax (PAT) of the Company.
Your Directors, considering the good performance and a
strong cash flow, decided to recommend a Dividend of
Rs. . (%) per Ordinary (Equity) Share of the face
value of Rs. each out of the Profits for the Financial Year
ended 31st March, .
The Equity Dividend Outgo for the Financial Year -
would absorb a sum of Rs. ,. crores resulting in a
payout of .% of the standalone net profit of the
Company for the Financial Year - [as against
Rs. ,. crores comprising the dividend of Rs. .
per Ordinary (Equity) Share of the face value of Rs. each
resulting in a payout of .% for the previous year].
Dividend will be payable subject to approval of Members at
the ensuing Annual General Meeting and deduction of tax at
source to those Shareholders whose names appear in the
Register of Members as on the Book Closure Date. The Board
of your Company decided not to transfer any amount to the
General Reserve for the year under review. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Dividend Distribution Policy
The Dividend Distribution Policy containing the requirements
mentioned in Regulation 43A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, (“Listing
Regulations”) is attached as Annexure I and forms part of
this Annual Report.
The Dividend Distribution Policy of the Company is also
uploaded on the Company’s website at the following Weblink:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policiesand-documents. B. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company,
its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures prepared in
accordance with the Companies Act, and applicable
Indian Accounting Standards along with all relevant
documents and the Auditors’ Report form part of this Annual
Report. The Consolidated Financial Statements presented by
the Company include the financial results of its subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures.
The Consolidated Revenue from operations is Rs. ,,
crores in the current year as compared to Rs. ,,
crores in the previous year, registering an increase of %.
The consolidated profit before exceptional items, share of
profit of associates and joint ventures and tax for the year is
Rs. , crores as against Rs. , crores in the previous
year, registering an increase of .%. The consolidated profit
after tax after non-controlling interest and exceptional items
for the year is Rs. , crores as against Rs. , crores
in the previous year, registering an increase of .%.
The Financial Statements as stated above are also available
on the website of the Company and can be accessed at
the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY24/
AnnualReport.zip. is Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the
previous year, registering a decrease of .%.
The Group’s finance company, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited, a listed subsidiary of the Company
(Mahindra Finance), reported a consolidated operating
revenue of Rs. , crores during the current year
as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous year,
registering an increase of .%. The consolidated profit
after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs.
, crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous
year, registering a decrease of .%.
Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, a listed subsidiary
in the business of real estate and infrastructure, reported
a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. crores as
compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering
a decrease of .%. The consolidated profit after tax after
non‑controlling interest for the year is Rs. crores as
compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering
a decrease of %.
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited, a listed subsidiary in
the business of timeshare, registered a consolidated operating
revenue of Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. , crores
in the previous year, registering an increase of .%. The
consolidated profit after tax after non-controlling interests
for the year is Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores
in the previous year, registering an increase of .%.
Mahindra Logistics Limited, a listed subsidiary in the logistics
business, reported a consolidated operating revenue of
Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. , crores in
the previous year registering an increase of .%. The
consolidated loss after tax after non-controlling interests for
the year is Rs. crores as compared to a profit of Rs. crores in the previous year, registering a decrease of .%. The Mahindra Group entities continue to play a pivotal role
in driving the overall revenue growth and performance of
your Company. Swaraj Engines Limited, a listed subsidiary in the business
of manufacturing of Diesel Engines and its components,
reported operating revenue of Rs. , crores as compared
to Rs. , crores in the previous year registering a decrease
of .%. The profit after tax for the year is Rs. crores as
compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering an
increase of %. Tech Mahindra Limited, Flagship Company in the IT Sector,
reported a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. ,
crores in the current year as compared to Rs. , crores
in the previous year, registering a decrease of .%. Its
consolidated profit after tax after non-controlling interests During the year under review, Mahindra Last Mile Mobility
Limited, Illuminate Hybren Private Limited (formerly known as
Icarus Hybren Private Limited), Hazel Hybren Private Limited,
Gelos Solren Private Limited, Furies Solren Private Limited,
Kyros Hybren Private Limited, Jade Hybren Private Limited, Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associate
Companies Layer Hybren Private Limited, Migos Hybren Private Limited
and ZipZap Logistics Private Limited have become Subsidiaries
of your Company.
During the year under review, MSPL International DMCC,
Gipps Aero Pty Ltd, GA8 Airvan Pty Ltd, GA200 Pty
Ltd, Nomad TC Pty Ltd, Airvan Pty Ltd, Airvan Flight
Services Pty Ltd, Megasolis Renewables Private Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra Renewables Private Limited),
Mega Suryaurja Private Limited, Astra Solren Private
Limited, Neo Solren Private limited, Brightsolar Renewable
Energy Private Limited, Emergent Solren Private Limited,
Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L., V-Link Automotive Services
Private Limited, V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited
and Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari have ceased to be
subsidiaries of your Company.
Further, Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited
ceased to be a wholly owned subsidiary of your Company
and became an Associate of your Company during the
year under review. Subsequently, name of Mahindra Waste
To Energy Solutions Limited has been changed to Blue
Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited.
Subsequent to year end, Mahindra North American Technical
Centre, Inc has been merged with Mahindra Automotive North
America Inc. and ceased to be a subsidiary of your Company.
Subsequent to year end, Neon Hybren Private Limited,
Orion Hybren Private Limited, Pulse Hybren Private
Limited, Quest Hybren Private Limited became subsidiaries
of your Company.
During the year under review, Sanyo Special Steel
Manufacturing India Private Limited, CIE Automotive India
Limited (formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive
Limited) and Zoomcar Inc. have ceased to be Associates
of your Company.
Further, during the year, Icarus Hybren Private Limited has
changed its name to Illuminate Hybren Private Limited.
A Report on the performance and financial position of each
of the subsidiaries, associates and joint venture companies
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements and
their contribution to the overall performance of the
Company, is provided in Form AOC- and forms part of
this Annual Report.
The Policy for determining material subsidiaries as
approved by the Board is uploaded on the Company’s website and can be accessed in the Governance section at
the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
policies-and-documents. C.	JOINT VENTURES, ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER
MATTERS
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
During the year, your Company entered into a Securities
Subscription and Shareholders’ Agreement with Jongsong
Investments Pte Ltd (“Temasek”) and Mahindra Electric
Automobile Limited (“MEAL”). Pursuant to the above, Temasek
agreed to invest Rs. , crores in MEAL in one or more
tranches in the form of Compulsory Convertible Preference
Shares (“CCPS”) at a valuation of upto Rs. , crores,
resulting in an ownership in the range of .% to .%
for Temasek in MEAL. The said investment also envisages
Temasek subscribing to Equity Shares in MEAL. Part of
the investment by Temasek in CCPS of MEAL was completed
during the year.
Further, as indicated in the previous year’s Annual Report,
on 26th September, , Equity Shares of MEAL
of face value of Rs. per share were allotted to British
International Investment Plc (“BII”) at a premium of Rs. .
per share, for an aggregate cash consideration of Rs. ,.
Consequently, MEAL ceased to be a Wholly Owned Subsidiary
of the Company but continues to be a subsidiary of the
Company. Besides the Equity Shares as mentioned above,
BII and BII India EV LLP, a BII related party (“BII India”) also
hold ,,, Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares
(CCPS) of Rs. , each. Induction of Financial Partners in the Last
Mile Mobility Business
During the year, Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited
(“MLMML”) was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary
of the Company. Subsequently, the Company entered into
an Asset Transfer Agreement and a Business Transfer
Agreement with MLMML, for transfer of identified Assets and
Business pertaining to the Last Mile Mobility Business of the
Company to MLMML.
The Company invested an amount of Rs. Crores by way
of Subscription to a Rights Issue of Equity Shares of MLMML,
the proceeds of which were also utilized towards discharge
of consideration for the Asset Transfer and Business Transfer
from the Company. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Pursuant to the Subscription Agreement and Shareholders
Agreement entered into by the Company with International
Finance Corporation (“IFC”) on 22nd March, , IFC agreed
to invest upto Rs. Crores in CCPS of the newly formed
company i.e. MLMML, in one or more tranches.
Accordingly, during the year, IFC was allotted ,,
CCPS of MLMML, for an aggregate consideration of
Rs. crores. Consequent to the above, MLMML ceased to
be a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company with effect
from 9th October, , while it continues to be a subsidiary
of the Company.
The Company also entered into an Amended and Restated
Shareholders’ Agreement and a Subscription Agreement
on 11th January, , with India Japan Fund (“IJF”), a fund
managed by National Investment and Infrastructure Fund
Limited (“NIIF”), whereby IJF agreed to invest Rs. crores
in CCPS of MLMML, at a valuation of upto Rs. , crores,
in one or more tranches. During the year, IJF was allotted
,, CCPS of MLMML, for an aggregate consideration
of Rs. crores. Strategic Partnership in Renewables
Business and Listing of Infrastructure
Investment Trust (InvIT)
In furtherance of your Company’s partnership with Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan Board (“OTPP”), Ontario
Limited (“2OL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of OTPP, exercised
its option to increase its stake by .% in Mahindra
Susten Private Limited (“MSPL”) and in Emergent Solren
Private Limited (“ESPL”), by entering into a Share Purchase
Agreement with Mahindra Holdings Limited (“MHL”), a wholly
owned subsidiary of your Company. Consequent to this
transaction, MHL holds .% stake and 2OL holds .%
stake in MSPL and ESPL.
As part of the partnership with OTPP, it was also envisaged
to form an InvIT to unlock value in the Renewable Energy
Sector through a series of transactions during the year.
First, the undertaking pertaining to Solar Power Business
i.e. two solar projects in MSPL aggregating to ~ MWp
portfolio, was demerged into Emergent Solren Private Limited
(“ESPL”) by way of a Scheme of Arrangement, sanctioned
by the Mumbai Bench of the National Company Law
Tribunal (“NCLT”), between MSPL, ESPL, and their respective
shareholders and creditors (“the Scheme”). The Scheme was
sanctioned by NCLT with the Appointed Date as the Effective
Date i.e. 1st September, . Subsequent to the demerger, to meet regulatory compliance
requirements, your Company acquired ,, Equity
Shares of ESPL from MHL, constituting .% of the
paid-up equity share capital of ESPL.
During the year, Sustainable Energy Infra Trust (“SEIT”) was
registered as an InvIT with SEBI, with MSPL and Ontario Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of OTPP
(“Ontario”) as the Co-Sponsors, and Sustainable Energy Infra
Investment Managers Private Limited (“IM”) was incorporated
as the Investment Manager to SEIT.
Further, your Company and MSPL executed Share Purchase
Agreements with IM, SEIT, Axis Trustee Services Limited
(Trustee to SEIT), 2OL and ESPL, and subsequently sold their
entire stakes in ESPL, Megasolis Renewables Private Limited
(“MRPL”) (including its subsidiaries Astra Solren Private Limited,
Neo Solren Private Limited and Bright Solar Renewable Energy
Private Limited, hereinafter referred to as “MRPL Subsidiaries”)
and Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (“MSUPL”) to SEIT. In
consideration, SEIT allotted its units to your Company and
MSPL. Consequent to the sale, ESPL, MSUPL, MRPL and MRPL
Subsidiaries ceased to be subsidiaries of your Company and
consequent to the unit allotment, your Company and MSPL
held .% and .% stake in SEIT respectively, prior to the
Initial Offer to domestic and foreign institutional investors.
As part of the Initial Offer through Private Placement of
units of SEIT by way of Offer for Sale of INR , Million
by MSPL and a Primary Issue, the pre-offer stake held by
your Company and MSPL in SEIT was diluted to .% and
% respectively post-offer. The Offer was subscribed by
marquee global and Indian investors, including OTPP and
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB).
By way of these transactions, your Company, in partnership
with OTPP, set up, co-sponsored and listed India’s largest
pureplay renewable energy InvIT to focus on the growth of
the renewable energy sector in India at scale. Induction of OTPP, the Financial Partner in
Mahindra Teqo Private Limited
During the year, Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (“MTPL”),
wholly owned subsidiary of Mahindra Sustainable Energy
Private Limited (“MSEPL”, formerly known as Mahindra
Telecom Energy Management Services Private Limited), which
is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a
Share Subscription Agreement (“SSA”) with Ontario
Limited (“Ontario”), a wholly owned subsidiary of OTPP and
Shareholders Agreement (“SHA”) with Ontario and MSEPL. Pursuant to the SSA, Ontario subscribed to , Equity
Shares of MTPL for a consideration of Rs. crores
representing % of the post-issue capital of MTPL. The
primary investment in MTPL enables value unlocking and
scaling up of MTPL, which is in the operation and asset
management business of renewable energy assets. Induction of New Investors and fund raise
by Existing Shareholders in Classic Legends
Private Limited
During the year, Classic Legends Private Limited (“CLPL”), a
subsidiary of the Company, executed Securities Subscription
Agreement and Amended & Restated Shareholders’ Agreement
(“Agreements”) with the Company, Existing Shareholders of
CLPL and New Investors, setting out the terms and conditions
of proposed investment of Rs. crores in CLPL.
The proposed investment will be made by way of subscription
to CCPS and Equity Shares of CLPL, out of which the Company
has agreed to invest Rs. crores and the balance Rs. crores will be invested by Existing Shareholders and New
Investors in tranches over the next - years as per the
terms and conditions stipulated in the Agreements.
CLPL will use the proposed investment of Rs. crores to
build a strong business that leverages the strengths of your
Company and its partners. Part of the proposed investment
was completed during the financial year. Merger of Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited,
Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited and Trringo.
Com Limited with the Company
The Board of Directors of your Company at its meeting held
on 4th August, , subject to requisite approvals/consents,
approved the Scheme of Merger by Absorption of Mahindra
Heavy Engines Limited (“MHEL”) and Mahindra Two Wheelers
Limited (“MTWL”) and Trringo.com Limited (“TCL”), wholly
owned subsidiaries of the Company, with the Company and
their respective shareholders (“Scheme”) under sections to and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act,
, with the Appointed Date of the Scheme as 1st April, or such other date as may be directed or approved by
the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench (“NCLT”) or
any other appropriate authority. On completion of the merger,
entire assets and liabilities of MHEL, MTWL and TCL would be
transferred to and recorded by the Company at their carrying
values. Additionally, no shares of the Company shall be allotted
in lieu or exchange of the holding of the Company in MHEL, MTWL and TCL (held directly and jointly with the nominee
shareholders) and accordingly, equity shares held in MHEL,
MTWL and TCL shall stand cancelled on the Effective Date
without any further act, instrument or deed.
The NCLT has pronounced an Order on 7th May, allowing
the Scheme and a certified copy of the Order was received
on 15th May, . Acquisition of stake in RBL Bank Limited
During the year, your Company acquired ,,, equity
shares of RBL Bank Limited (“RBL”) representing .%
of the paid-up share capital of RBL, at a consideration of
approximately Rs. crores. Divestment of Stake in Gipps Aero Pty
Limited and other subsidiaries of Mahindra
Aerospace Australia Pty Limited
During the year, Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Limited
(“MAAPL”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Mahindra Aerospace
Private Limited (“MAPL”) and a step down subsidiary of
your Company, has sold its entire stake in Gipps Aero Pty
Ltd, GA8 Airvan Pty Ltd, GA200 Pty Ltd, Nomad TC Pty
Ltd, Airvan Pty Ltd and Airvan Flight Services Pty Ltd,
wholly owned subsidiaries of MAAPL (collectively referred
to as “MAAPL Subsidiaries”) to Mr. George Morgan, former
founder of Gippsland Aeronautics Pty Ltd. and a Director on
the Board of MAAPL Subsidiaries. Following the completion
of the aforementioned sale, MAAPL subsidiaries have ceased
to be the subsidiaries of MAAPL and that of MAPL and
your Company. Divestment of Stake in Mahindra Marine
Private Limited
During the year, the trustees of Sunrise Initiatives (“Sunrise
Trust”) agreed to sell its entire stake in Mahindra Marine
Private Limited (“MMPL”) i.e. .% of the Paid-Up Equity
Share Capital of MMPL to its JV Partner i.e. Ocean Blue
Boating Private Limited (“Ocean Blue”) and its nominee(s).
Your Company is the sole beneficiary of Sunrise Trust and
thus, MMPL was a subsidiary of the Company under the
Indian Accounting Standards (IndAS) and consequent to
the aforesaid sale, MMPL has ceased to be a subsidiary of
the Company under IndAS with effect from 5th June, .
MMPL, being a non-core loss making subsidiary of the
Company, Sunrise Trust evaluated various options to exit the
business via sale or closure of the same. The option of sale
to the existing JV Partner was found appropriate and most MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT feasible as the latter option of closure would have entailed
further capital infusion in the business and as such, sale to
the JV Partner was concluded. Sale of stake held by the Company in Sanyo
Special Steel Manufacturing India Private
Limited (formerly known as Mahindra
Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited)
As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, your
Company during the year, sold its entire stake of ,,
Equity Shares of Rs. each in Sanyo Special Steel
Manufacturing India Private Limited (formerly known as
Mahindra Sanyo Special Steel Private Limited) (SSSMIPL)
constituting .% of the paid-up share capital of SSSMIPL
pursuant to exercise of a Put Option available to the
Company on Sanyo under the Shareholders’ Agreement.
Post this sale, SSSMIPL has ceased to be an Associate of
the Company. Sale of stake held by the Company in CIE
Automotive India Limited (formerly known
as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited)
As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, your Company
during the year, sold its entire stake of ,,, Equity
Shares of Rs. each in CIE Automotive India Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited) (CIE
India) constituting .% of the paid-up share capital of
CIE India. Post this sale, the Company does not have any
equity interest in CIE India and has ceased to be a Promoter
of CIE India. Sale of stake held by the Company in Blue
Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra Waste To
Energy Solutions Limited)
As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, your
Company during the year sold ,,, Equity Shares
of Rs. each in Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions
Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Waste To Energy
Solutions Limited) (BPIWSL) constituting % of the paidup share capital of BPIWSL to Blue Planet Environmental
Solutions Pte Ltd (BPES). Following the sale, the Company’s
holding in BPIWSL has reduced to % and BPIWSL ceased
to be a subsidiary of the Company and has become an
Associate. D.	INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
The Corporate Governance Policies guide the conduct
of affairs of your Company and clearly delineate the
roles, responsibilities and authorities at each level of its
Governance Structure and Key Functionaries involved in
Governance. The Code of Conduct for Senior Management
and Employees of your Company (the Code of Conduct)
commits Management to financial and accounting policies,
systems and processes. The Corporate Governance Policies
and the Code of Conduct stand widely communicated across
your Company at all times.
Your Company’s Financial Statements are prepared on the
basis of the Significant Accounting Policies that are carefully
selected by Management and approved by the Audit
Committee and the Board. These Accounting policies are
reviewed and updated from time to time.
Your Company uses SAP ERP Systems as a business enabler
and to maintain its Books of Account. The transactional
controls built into the SAP ERP Systems ensure appropriate
segregation of duties, appropriate level of approval
mechanisms and maintenance of supporting records. The
Policies related to the Information Management reinforce
the control environment. The systems, Standard Operating
Procedures and controls are reviewed by Management.
These systems and controls are subjected to Internal Audit
and their findings and recommendations are reviewed by the
Audit Committee which ensures the implementation.
Your Company has in place adequate internal financial controls
with reference to the Financial Statements commensurate
with the size, scale and complexity of its operations. Your
Company’s Internal Financial Controls were deployed through
Internal Control – Integrated Framework () issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), that addresses material risks in your
Company’s operations and financial reporting objectives.
Such controls have been assessed during the year under
review taking into consideration the essential components
of internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Based on the
results of such assessments carried out by the Management, no
reportable material weakness or significant deficiencies in the
design or operation of internal financial controls were observed. Your Company recognizes that the Internal Financial Controls
cannot provide absolute assurance of achieving financial,
operational and compliance reporting objectives because of
its inherent limitations. Also, projections of any evaluation of
the Internal Financial Controls to future periods are subject
to the risk that the Internal Financial Controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate. Accordingly, regular audits and review processes
ensure that such systems are reinforced on an ongoing basis.
In response to a cyber-attack on 16th March, , the
Company took swift action to mitigate the impact and restore
affected systems. The Company investigated the matter
of cyber attack and concluded that there is no significant
impact on the operations and financial statements of the
Company on account of this incident. E.	
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
REPORT
A detailed analysis of your Company’s performance is
discussed in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report,
which forms part of this Annual Report. F.	RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
The Company has in place a robust process for approval of
Related Party Transactions and Dealing with Related Parties.
As per the process, necessary details for each of the Related
Party Transactions as applicable along with the justification
are provided to the Audit Committee in terms of the
Company’s Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related
Party Transactions and as required under SEBI Master Circular
dated 11th July, . The Material Related Party Transactions
approved by the Members of the Company are also reviewed /
monitored on quarterly basis by the Audit Committee of the
Company as per Regulation of the Listing Regulations and
Section of the Companies Act, .
All Related Party Transactions entered during the year were
in the ordinary course of business and on arm’s length basis.
During the year under review, your Company has entered
into Material Related Party Transactions as previously
approved by the Members under Regulation of the Listing
Regulations. The Company also proposes to modify the limits of certain existing Material Related Party Transactions
and also intends to enter into new Material Related Party
Transactions for which the approval of Members is being
sought.
The Company has not entered into Material Related Party
Transactions as per the provisions of the Companies Act, and a confirmation to this effect as required under
section ()(h) of the Companies Act, is given
in Form AOC- as Annexure II, which forms part of this
Annual Report.
The Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party
Transactions as approved by the Board is uploaded on the
Company’s website and can be accessed in the Governance
section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/policies-and-documents. G.	AUDITORS
Statutory Auditors and Auditors’ Report
Messrs B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI
Firm Registration Number 101248W/W-) were
re-appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company to
hold office for a second term of years from the conclusion
of the 76th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 5th August, until the conclusion of the 81st AGM of the Company
to be held in the year .
The Auditors’ Report for FY - is unmodified i.e. it does
not contain any qualification, reservation, adverse remark or
disclaimer. Secretarial Auditor
Pursuant to the provisions of section of the
Companies Act, and the Companies (Appointment
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, ,
the Company has appointed Mr. Sachin Bhagwat, Practicing
Company Secretary (Certificate of Practice Number: )
to undertake the Secretarial Audit of the Company.
The Company has annexed to this Board’s Report as Annexure
III, a Secretarial Audit Report for the Financial Year -
given by the Secretarial Auditor.
The Secretarial Audit Report does not contain any
qualification, reservation, adverse remark or disclaimer. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Annual Secretarial Compliance Report Cost Records J. EMPLOYEES The Company has undertaken an audit for the Financial
Year - for all applicable compliances as per SEBI
Regulations and Circulars / Guidelines issued thereunder.
The Annual Secretarial Compliance Report duly signed
by Mr. Sachin Bhagwat has been submitted to the
Stock Exchanges and is annexed at Annexure IV to this
Board’s Report. As per section of the Companies Act, , read with
the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, , your
Company is required to maintain cost records and accordingly,
such accounts and records are maintained. Key Managerial Personnel (KMP) Secretarial Audit
Indian Subsidiary of Material Unlisted There is no Material Unlisted Indian Subsidiary of the
Company as on 31st March, and as such the requirement
under Regulation 24A of the Listing Regulations regarding
the Secretarial Audit of Material Unlisted Indian Subsidiary
is not applicable to the Company for the Financial Year
-. Cost Auditors
The Board had appointed Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost
Accountants (Firm Registration Number ), as Cost
Auditor for conducting the audit of cost records of the
Company for the Financial Year -.
The Board of Directors on the recommendation of the
Audit Committee, appointed Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost
Accountants (Firm Registration Number ), as the
Cost Auditors of the Company for the Financial Year -
under section of the Companies Act, . Messrs
D. C. Dave & Co. have confirmed that their appointment is
within the limits of section ()(g) of the Companies Act, and have also certified that they are free from any
disqualifications specified under section () and proviso
to section () read with section () of the Companies
Act, .
The Audit Committee has also received a Certificate from the
Cost Auditors certifying their independence and arm’s length
relationship with the Company.
As per the provisions of the Companies Act, , the
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is required to be
placed before the Members in a General Meeting for their
ratification. Accordingly, a Resolution seeking Members’
ratification for the remuneration payable to Messrs D. C. Dave
& Co., Cost Auditors is included in the Notice convening the
Annual General Meeting. Reporting of Frauds by Auditors
During the year under review, the Statutory Auditors, Cost
Auditors and Secretarial Auditor have not reported any
instances of frauds committed in the Company by its Officers
or Employees to the Audit Committee under section ()
of the Companies Act, . H.	
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES,
INVESTMENTS AND SECURITIES
Particulars of the loans given, investment made or guarantee
given or security provided and the purpose for which the
loan or guarantee or security is proposed to be utilised
by the recipient of the loan or guarantee or security are
provided in Note Nos. and to the Financial Statements. I.	PUBLIC DEPOSITS AND LOANS / ADVANCES
Your Company had discontinued acceptance of Fixed Deposits
with effect from 1st April, .
All the deposits from public and shareholders had already
matured as on 31st March, . Out of these, deposits
aggregating Rs. . lakhs from the public and shareholders
as on 31st March, had matured and had not been paid
at the end of the Financial Year as there is a restraining
order from the Court / Tribunal/ Statutory Authority. Since
then, no deposits have been claimed.
There was no default in repayment of deposits or payment of
interest thereon during the year under review. There are no
deposits which are not in compliance with the requirements
of Chapter V of the Companies Act, .
The particulars of loans / advances / investments, etc.,
required to be disclosed pursuant to Para A of Schedule V
of the Listing Regulations are furnished separately in this
Annual Report.
The transaction(s) of the Company with a company belonging
to the promoter / promoter group which hold(s) more than
% shareholding in the Company as required pursuant to
Para A of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations are disclosed
separately in the Financial Statements of the Company. The following have been designated as the Key Managerial
Personnel of the Company pursuant to sections () and of the Companies Act, read with the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, :
(a)	Dr. Anish Shah – Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer
(b)	
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar – Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector)
(c)	Mr. Manoj Bhat – Group Chief Financial Officer (Upto close
of 16th May, )
(d)	Mr. Amarjyoti Barua - Group Chief Financial Officer (with
effect from 17th May, )
(e) Mr. Narayan Shankar – Company Secretary Employees’ Stock Option and Employees’
Welfare Schemes
During the year under review, based on the recommendation
of the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(GNRC) of your Company, the Trustees of Mahindra &
Mahindra Employees’ Stock Option Trust have granted
Stock Options to employees under the Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme . No Stock
Options have been granted to employees under the Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme ( Scheme).
The Company has in force the following Schemes which get
covered under the provisions of Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat
Equity) Regulations, (SBEB Regulations ):
.	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option
Scheme – ( Scheme)*
.	Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option
Scheme – ( Scheme)
. M&M Employees Welfare Fund No. . M&M Employees Welfare Fund No. . M&M Employees Welfare Fund No. * No outstanding options as on 31st March, and as such
the Scheme is no longer in force. There are no changes made to the above Schemes during
the year under review and these Schemes are in compliance
with the SBEB Regulations . Your Company’s Secretarial
Auditor, Mr. Sachin Bhagwat, has certified that the Company’s
above-mentioned Schemes have been implemented in
accordance with the SBEB Regulations , and the
Resolutions passed by the Members for the Scheme
and the Scheme.
Information as required under Regulation read with Part
F of Schedule I of the SBEB Regulations has been
uploaded on the Company’s website and can be accessed
at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY24/
AnnualReport.zip. Particulars
disclosures of Employees and related The Company had employees who were in receipt of
remuneration of not less than Rs. ,,, during the
year ended 31st March, or not less than Rs. ,,
per month during any part of the year.
Details of employee remuneration as required under
provisions of section () of the Companies Act, read with Rule () & () of the Companies (Appointment
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, will
be made available during days before the Annual General
Meeting in electronic mode to any Shareholder upon request
sent at agm.inspection@mahindra.com. Such details are also
available on your Company’s website and can be accessed
at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY24/
AnnualReport.zip.
Disclosures with respect to the remuneration of Directors,
Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs) and employees as required
under section () of the Companies Act, read with
Rule () of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, are given in Annexure
V to this Report. Industrial Relations
The year under review witnessed a very positive Industrial
Relations Scenario across all manufacturing locations for the
Automotive and Farm Equipment Sectors.
Your Company’s focus continues towards propagating
proactive and employee centric practices. Various initiatives
that aim to create an engaged workforce with an innovative,
productive and a competitive shop-floor ecosystem continues
to grow in strength. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Some of the initiatives that are put in place includes,
Development of Self-Managed Team, Employee of the year,
Reward and Recognition for associates, i4-idea generation
program, etc. Further, the programs on Code of Conduct,
Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH), Anti‑Bribery
and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) and Human Rights are made
mandatory to ensure appropriate behaviour and governance.
The Employee Relations Council is dedicated towards building
a positive Work Culture, leading the design and implementation
of these programs and review of its progress periodically.
With the objective of capability building, developing future
ready workforce and fostering togetherness at the workplace,
your Company implements multiple training and engagement
programs on an ongoing basis. These include various
behavioural and functional programs such as Behavioural
based safety, quality tools, TPM, Personal Presence and
programs on current and future skill such as Robotics,
Mechatronics, Auto Electric Diagnostics, Electric Vehicle
Technology, etc. Automotive Skills Development Council
(ASDC) certification program for selected Trainees were also
on offer. In its continuous endeavour to improve the employee
experience, your Company has been implementing multiple
digital initiatives viz: automation of Training Portal to enable
self-paced learning during this fast-paced work environment
and manage punching to billing for contract Labours through
integrated Contract Labour Management System (CLMS).
The Mahindra Skill Excellence initiative, a holistic approach to
enhance the skill and capabilities of shop floor associates, is
receiving good participation across manufacturing facilities.
Total , associates across AFS participated for MSE
competition during the year.
In an endeavour to improve quality, reduce cost, ensure
safety and improve productivity, your Company’s shop floor
associates managed to generate on an average . ideas per
person in the Financial Year .
This year, significant emphasis was also laid towards raising
awareness on health and wellness of employees in addition
to regular annual medical check-ups and health awareness
activities. Diet food has become a way of life. The Company
maintains an ‘Employee Health Index’ at an individual level,
and this has been a useful tool in identifying employees who
require focussed counselling and monitoring.
Proactive and employee-centric shop floor practices, a
focus on transparent communication of business goals, an
effective concern resolution mechanism, and a firm belief
that employees are the most valuable assets of the Company,
are the cornerstone of your Company’s employee relations approach. An ‘open door policy’ with constant dialogue to
create win-win situations, have helped your Company build
trust and harmony.
The industrial relations scenario continued to be largely
positive across all the manufacturing locations. Bonus
settlements were closed amicably for all the plants. The
sustained efforts towards building a progressive work culture
resulted in zero production loss in the Financial Year -
and helped create a collaborative, healthy and productive
work environment. Safety, Occupational Health and Environment
Your Company has in place the Safety, Occupational Health &
Environment (SOH&E) Policy. During the year under review, the
Company started all external physical assessments along with
Integrated Management System (IMS) certifications as per the
following standards, ISO: : , ISO: : & ISO:
: , Re-certification of which is an ongoing process.
The management commitment towards SOH&E is
demonstrated by adopting all relevant amendment updates
(including all notifications published) and incorporating
them in mCompliance portal. The Company implemented
various initiatives by incorporating senior management
periodic reviews. All new Emission Norms as specified by the
Government were followed through revised notifications and
guidelines complying to overall health and hygiene parameters.
The overall manufacturing conditions and their status were
assessed through periodic monitoring and measurement
exercised by external authorized agencies.
At manufacturing locations, various annual events like Road
Safety Week, National Safety Day / Month and Fire Service Week,
Energy Conservation Week, Sustainability Day were celebrated.
The training programs were leveraged with new topics by
introducing sustenance in safety with virtual reality (V.R.)
programs for competency building which were deployed to
train employees. VR dexterity training was implemented for
welding, sealer, and paint applications. Critical attributes i.e.,
Learning Agility, Decision making, and Safety at Workplace
training were completed.
Personal Presence training program for Associates, Skill
Competitions, Self-Motivated Teams (SMT’s) development,
Basic Hygiene Sensitization Program for Females, Behavioral
Based Training for all Associates, Mandatory Training Programs
i.e. POSH, Human Rights, ABAC, Code of Conduct (COC) were
covered. In Safety, Health and Environment competency building
followed by on-the-job training (OJT) were arranged for
Associates through Mahindra skill excellence competitions, i.e.
i- Rise to create value competitions, Mechatronics, Welding,
Painting & CNC Machining, etc. training programs were
arranged for Associates. Special focus is given on safety and
fire safety by introducing assessment of degree machine
guarding supporting safety index.
The Company continues to focus on safety best practices,
by conducting Safety observation tours (SoT), monthly
themes on safety topics arising out of OHS risks. Horizontal
deployment followed by immediate corrective actions (ICA) as
well as permanent corrective actions (PCA) are implemented
and reviewed by top management. There has been a reduction
in the rate of overall Reportable and Non-Reportable Injuries
over previous year. Further, Zero Fire incidence, First Aid
cases Reduction were achieved in F24. Monthly themebased Safety drives were initiated. All monthly themes were
revised and were well participated which was appreciated by
all Associates and officers. Safe Employee of the Month for
Associates on shop was also recognised.
Vigorous drive to eliminate overall at-risk behaviours is
conducted by exercising Behavior Based Safety (BBS)
Level . In order to reduce fire risk, your Company introduced
additional fire alarm and detection system in stores area for
strengthening fire protection system to eliminate property
losses. Monthly results were monitored by reviewing office
fire (prevention and protection) systems. Fire load reduction is
monitored by setting up revised targets and working towards
sustenance of zero fire incidence across each manufacturing
location in every Sector.
All locations are supported and protected by administrative
control with the help of Auto glow signages and painting /
marking.
Your Company has followed pattern defined by Central Safety
Council (CSC) of Mahindra and Mahindra Group of Companies
by establishing a Cross Functional Team (CFT). This year’s focus
was provided on significant high hazard non-routine activities
in the assessment of The Mahindra Safety Way (TMSW).
Total parameters are assessed and evaluated stage-wise
covering all Sectors for the Mahindra Group companies across
all the plants. Upgraded plants which qualified with improved
results were declared for rewards in the Mahindra Rise Awards
function. A repeated virtual training program was arranged on
the topic – “Fire Safety @ Home” on the occasion of Diwali
festival for the employees of Mahindra Group Companies and their families with an objective to create awareness among
employees and their family regarding Fire, Fire hazards and
associated Risks till its Mitigation process.
Your Company has maintained on-site, off-site plan and
disaster management plan with adoption of change process,
Gap audits are carried out for Risk evaluation of business
and its critical designated license storage areas. These were
audited by competent persons authorized by respective
governing authorities for its applicable compliances. The
Company has exercised Statutory Safety, Occupational Health
and Environmental, Fire Safety, Electrical Safety Audits, Water
Audit, FSSAI Audit under Food Testing under FSSI Act. During
the year under review, your Company achieved substantial
improvements in the percentage of results of Safety index
and Fire Safety index by adopting new initiatives. There was a
focused drive undertaken on critical processes and operations.
To eliminate and minimize the overall environmental impact
in line with the “Environmental, Social and Governance” (ESG)
practices, your Company has continuously implemented new
projects. By revising the objectives, newer revised targets
were taken. New techniques used in various projects have
been implemented by your Company in achieving reduction
in carbon emission, waste avoidance/minimization. Reduction
in Carbon footprint by implementing new kaizens in energy
conservation and improving share of renewable energy was
achieved. Energy cost was saved through implementation
of BLDC fan, standalone AC in Assembly lines, Esmart LED
lights, etc.
The Company had put up a Heath and Wellness Stall on the
occasion of the Founders Day. Awareness in the supplier
community was created to encourage suppliers’ consultation
and participation in order to enable them to overcome current
and future business risks.
During the year under review, your Company started
reporting the implementation status under Extended
Producer Responsibility Organizations (EPRO) with existing
set targets established by Central Government i.e., Central
Pollution Control Board by way of release of new list of
commodities under Extended Producers’ Responsibility
(EPR) notifications on Plastic, Tyres and Batteries. Plastic
elimination and recyclable packaging material in maximum
number of spares have been initiated by substituting the
material, as appropriate. Plastic waste management activities
covering pan-India network were developed for plastic
waste recycling management across all the Company’s
manufacturing plants. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Your Company implemented various water neutrality initiatives
and achieved recycling by processing STP water through RO
thereby achieving reduced consumption of freshwater. Through
these implementation measures, a marked improvement has
been observed in ground water level.
Your Company continued its commitment to improve the
well-being of employees and contract Associates through
the monthly Health theme. Various activities, Education and
awareness sessions were conducted by arranging Panel
Discussions and webinars on various topics i.e., General health,
Awareness and new updates, Work Stress Management,
Revive your Passion for work and Session on Absenteeism.
Programs are being conducted by renowned faculties for
Mahindra family members such as Mass Blood PressureScreening Camp, Fibro Scan of Liver and BCA Analysis Camp,
Tea Table Talk Demonstration of Stretching and Relaxation
Exercises for Mental Wellbeing, World Heart Day celebrations
followed by Health Talk By Cardiologist, World Mental
Health Day Street Play, Diabetic Retinopathy and Peripheral
Neuropathy Camp, Benign Prostatic Hypertrophy and Prostate
Cancer Camp, individual Physiotherapist Consultation,
International Yoga Day Celebration.
Additionally, the Company has initiated Nutrition Month to
improve health at the operational stages working towards
fat elimination at workplace and attended to Diabetic and
Hypertension issues among Associates by consultation, diet
and exercise. The Company provided food items with overall
focus on Oil Consumption per plate, which got reduced.
Mahindra Master Chef, on-the-spot salad making competition
was organized for Officers and Associates. The objective
behind the competition was to inculcate healthy food habits
and awareness regarding the choice of food. The participant’s
creativity was revealed through the beautiful designs and
patterns formed with different mouth-watering recipes. Inner
Wellness Program and Webinar on Healthy Diet and Nutritional
Plan in consultation with Nutritionist were organised.
The Company has also initiated Mahindra Cricket League for
Men and Women to encourage physical fitness at workplace.
First aid refresher training programs were organised for
employees and Associates, Videos were created to improve
the dexterity and posture of employees at shop floor.
During the year, Breast and Cervical Cancer awareness and
screening camp for Women and program on Gynaecology
Consultation, Health Talk – “Turn the Clock” for all employees and their family members, were arranged. Robust implementation
of compliance by providing awareness on Bio-medical Waste
Disposal Management is continuously monitored.
In collaboration with technical committee formed by
Government of Maharashtra for mitigation of air pollution in
Mumbai City, a project was performed on Bus Roof Mounted
Detachable Air Purification Unit retrofit on BEST Buses
through the Company’s CSR initiatives.
The Company aims at increasing awareness for environment
protection amongst all stakeholders by celebrating World
Ozone Day, World Environment Day, World Earth Day, World
Water Day and Energy Conservation Week and Water
Conservation Week, etc. on an annual basis.
The Total Recordable Frequency Rate (TRFR) was .
accidents per million hours worked in Financial Year -
as compared to . in the last fiscal year. Certifications/Recertifications
All Plants of your Company have undergone Surveillance
Audits and were certified for Standard ISO : and ISO : . Further, all Plants have implemented
Integrated Management System (IMS). Your Company is
re-certified for Zero Waste to Landfill with % and above
conversion rate which ensures the commitment of recycling
of waste at maximum extent to protect the environment.
The Senior Management revises and reviews the SOH&E
performance periodically. Focus on new initiatives involving
all stakeholders coupled with management reviews have
helped your Company to demonstrate further step towards
excellence in SOH&E performance. K. BOARD & COMMITTEES
Sad Demise of Mr. Keshub Mahindra,
Chairman Emeritus of the Company
As mentioned in the previous Annual Report, Mr. Keshub
Mahindra, Chairman Emeritus, Mahindra Group passed away
on 12th April, . He was a renowned humanitarian who
reshaped ethical corporate practices in India. He was an
outstanding diplomat and had an invaluable presence in
the Indian business sector, admired for his foresight, his
business expertise, his leading through demonstration, and
most importantly, for his unwavering professional honesty.
Mr. Keshub Mahindra will remain a source of inspiration for
all within the Mahindra Group. Directors
CP Gurnani
The Board of Directors at its Meeting held on 10th November, noted the resignation of Mr. CP Gurnani (DIN: )
as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company
with effect from 20th December, coinciding with his
retirement as Managing Director and CEO at Tech Mahindra
Limited.
Mr. CP Gurnani (popularly known as CP) joined the Board
of your Company on 1st April, . CP always believed
that business should serve a higher purpose and was
an embodiment of the Rise philosophy. He brought an
entrepreneurial flair to the business that added great value.
Vijay Kumar Sharma
The Board at its Meeting held on 10th November, also noted the resignation of Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
(DIN: ) as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director
of the Company with effect from 20th December, on
account of withdrawal of his nomination by Life Insurance
Corporation of India upon attaining the age of years. The Board has placed on record its deep appreciation of the
invaluable services rendered by Mr. Gurnani, Mr. Sharma and
Dr. Desai during their tenure as Non-Executive Directors of
the Company.
Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta’s (DIN:) second term
as an Independent Director will end on 7th August, .
He joined the Board of your Company on 30th May, .
He was appointed as a Lead Independent Director with
effect from 1st April, . As a Chairman of the Governance,
Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Mr. Mehta
played a vital role in steering the Succession Planning,
Compensation Framework and Talent Rotation within the
Mahindra Group.
His financial acumen, global mindset and high ethical
standards coupled with his expertise in deciphering
operational and financial data greatly facilitated strategic
decision making at the Board level. The Board is deeply
appreciative of his valuable contributions. Appointment of Directors Mr. Sharma joined the Board of your Company on
14th November, . He enriched the discussions at the
Board with his inputs that added valuable consumer insights
and were replete with foresight. Based on the recommendation of the GNRC, the Board
of Directors at its Meeting held on 14th February, ,
inter alia, considered and approved with effect from 17th May,
, the appointment of: Vishakha Desai . Ms. Padmasree Warrior (DIN: ) as an Additional
Director (Independent and Non-Executive) to hold
office as an Independent Director for a term of (five)
consecutive years upto 16th May, ; Subsequent to the year end, Dr. Vishakha Desai
(DIN: ) ceased to be an Independent Director of
the Company with effect from 1st May, , on completion
of her second term upon attaining the age of years.
Dr. Desai was initially appointed as Director on the Board of
your Company on 30th May, . She was appointed for a
first term of consecutive years as Independent Director
from 8th August, and subsequently re-appointed
for a second term commencing from 8th August, to
30th April, .
Dr. Vishakha Desai enriched the discussions at the Board
Meeting with a global perspective on matters that came
before the Board. Her contributions and guidance, particularly
in the area of CSR, were much appreciated by the Board. . 
Mr. Ranjan Pant (DIN: ) as an Additional
Director (Non-Executive and Non-Independent), liable to
retire by rotation; and
. Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo (DIN: ) as an Additional
Director
(Non-Executive
and
Non-Independent)
representing Life Insurance Corporation of India, liable
to retire by rotation.
Brief Profiles of Ms. Padmasree Warrior, Mr. Ranjan Pant and
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo are provided in the Corporate Governance
Report forming part of the Annual Report. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Ms. Padmasree Warrior, Mr. Ranjan Pant and Mr. Sat Pal
Bhanoo are not debarred from holding the office of director
on account of any order of SEBI or any other such authority.
The Company has received the requisite Notices from a
Member in writing proposing their appointment as Directors
of the Company. Re-appointment of Two Independent
Directors for a Second Term
The GNRC, on the basis of performance evaluation of Mr.
Haigreve Khaitan and Ms. Shikha Sharma and taking into
account the external business environment, the business
knowledge, acumen, experience and the substantial
contribution made by them during their tenure, has
recommended to the Board that the continued association of
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan and Ms. Shikha Sharma as Independent
Directors would be beneficial to the Company.
Based on the above and their performance evaluation,
the Board at its Meeting held on 16th May, has
recommended the re-appointment of Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
and Ms. Shikha Sharma as Independent Directors for a Second
Term of consecutive years commencing from 8th August, to 7th August, . The Company has received the
requisite Notices from a Member in writing proposing their
appointment as Independent Directors. Re-appointment of Dr. Anish Shah, Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer to be
Designated as “Group CEO and Managing
Director” and Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive
Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
Pursuant to the recommendation of the GNRC, the Board at
its Meeting held on 16th May, , approved the following:
.	
Re-appointment of Dr. Anish Shah as the “Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer” Designated as
“Group CEO and Managing Director” of the Company
with effect from 1st April, to 31st March, (both days inclusive), liable to retire by rotation.
.	Re-appointment of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as a Whole Time
Director designated as ‘Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector)’ of the Company, for a period
commencing from 1st April, to 24th June, (both days inclusive), liable to retire by rotation. Independent Directors
The Company has received declarations from all the
Independent Directors of the Company confirming that they
meet the criteria of independence as prescribed both under
the Companies Act, and Listing Regulations.
The Board is of the opinion that the Independent Directors
of the Company hold highest standards of integrity and
possess requisite expertise and experience required to fulfil
their duties as Independent Directors.
In terms of section of the Companies Act, read with Rule of the Companies (Appointment and
Qualification of Directors) Rules, , Independent
Directors of the Company have confirmed that they have
registered themselves with the databank maintained by
Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, Manesar (“IICA”).
The Independent Directors are also required to undertake
online proficiency self-assessment test conducted by IICA
within a period of (two) years from the date of inclusion
of their names in the data bank, unless they meet the
criteria specified for exemption.
The Independent Directors of the Company are exempt
from the requirement to undertake online proficiency
self-assessment test except Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
who has successfully completed the online proficiency
self-assessment test. Lead Independent Director
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Independent Director, Chairman
of Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
and Chairman of Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee (with effect from 1st May, ) is the Lead
Independent Director. The role and responsibilities of the
Lead Independent Director are provided in the Corporate
Governance Report forming part of this Annual Report. Retirement by rotation
Dr. Anish Shah retires by rotation and being eligible, offers
himself for re-appointment at the 78th Annual General Meeting
of the Company scheduled to be held on 31st July, . Board Evaluation
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, and the Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an
annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees as well as performance of all the Directors
individually including Independent Directors, Chairman of
the Board, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector).
Feedback Mechanism
Feedback was sought by way of a structured questionnaire
covering various aspects of the Board’s functioning such as
adequacy of time spent on strategic issues, effectiveness of
Governance practices, setting corporate culture and values,
execution and performance of specific duties, obligations and
governance. The performance evaluation was carried out
based on the responses received from the Directors.
Evaluation of Committees
The performance evaluation of Committees was based on
criteria such as structure and composition of Committees,
attendance and participation of member of the Committees,
fulfilment of the functions assigned to Committees by the
Board and applicable regulatory framework, adequacy of
time allocated at the Committee Meetings to fulfil duties
assigned to it, adequacy and timeliness of the Agenda and
Minutes circulated, comprehensiveness of the discussions,
effectiveness of the Committee’s recommendation for the
decisions of the Board, etc. Evaluation of Directors and Board A separate exercise was carried out by GNRC of the Board
to evaluate the performance of Individual Directors. The
performance evaluation of the Non-Independent Directors
and the Board as a whole was carried out by the Independent
Directors. The performance evaluation of the Chairman of the
Board was also carried out by the Independent Directors, taking
into account the views of the Executive Directors and NonExecutive Directors. The performance evaluation of the Managing
Director and the Executive Director of the Company was carried
out by the Chairman of the Board and other Directors. Criteria for Independent Directors The performance evaluation of Independent Directors was
based on various criteria, inter alia, including attendance
at Board and Committee Meetings, skill, experience, ability
to challenge views of others in a constructive manner,
knowledge acquired with regard to the Company’s business,
understanding of industry and global trends, ability to
maintain independence, etc.
Performance Evaluation indicators for Independent Directors
include contributing to and monitoring Corporate Governance
Practices, introduce International Best Practices to address Business Challenges and Risks and Participation in Long Term
Strategic Planning. Criteria for Chairman
The performance evaluation of Chairman of the Board
was based on various criteria, inter alia, including style of
Chairman’s leadership, effective engagement with other
Board members during and outside the meetings, allocation
of time provided to other Board members at the meetings,
effective engagement with shareholders during general
meetings, etc. Criteria for Managing Director and Executive Director
The performance evaluation of Managing Director and
Executive Director was based on various criteria, inter alia,
including standards of integrity, fairness and transparency
demonstrated, identification of strategic targets, anticipation
of future demands and opportunities, resource staffing to
meet short term and long term goals, engagement with Board
members, updating Board on significant issues, commitment
to organisational values, vision and mission, adaptation to
meet changing circumstances, knowledge and sensitivity of
stakeholders’ needs within and outside the Company. Results of Evaluation
The results of the Evaluation for the year under review were
shared with the Board, Chairman of respective Committees
and individual Directors. The results of Evaluation showed
high level of commitment and Engagement of Board, its
various Committees and Senior leadership.
As part of the outcome of the Performance Evaluation
exercise it was noted that the Board is Independent, operates
at a high level of Governance Standards and is committed to
creating value for all stakeholders.
It was also noted that the Meetings of the Board are well
planned and run effectively by the Chair, its Committees are
managed well and continue to perform on their respective
focus areas of Governance and Internal Controls.
As part of the Company’s annual strategy planning process,
the Company organised a Strategy Offsite with the Board
to deliberate on various topics related to strategic planning,
progress of ongoing strategic initiatives, risks to strategy
execution and the need for new strategic programs to
achieve the Company’s long-term objectives.
The evaluation outcomes for the year under review were
thoroughly deliberated upon with the Board Members, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Committee Chairpersons, and individual Directors. The results
underscore a good level of dedication and engagement exhibited
by the Board, its various Committees, and senior leadership.
A notable revelation from the Performance Evaluation is
the Board’s evident independence, coupled with a steadfast
adherence to stringent governance standards, all aimed at
augmenting value creation for stakeholders.
Moreover, it is noteworthy that the Board meetings are
meticulously planned and conducted with efficiency under
the guidance of the Chair. The Committees have also
demonstrated a good level of management and performance
in their respective areas of focus, particularly in governance
and internal controls.
Based on the outcome of the performance evaluation for
the year under review, the Board has agreed to maintain the
High Standards of Governance, Visibility and Interaction in
the coming years.
The Directors expressed their satisfaction with the
Evaluation process. During the year under review, GNRC
ascertained and reconfirmed that the deployment
of “questionnaire” as a methodology, is effective for
evaluation of performance of the Board and Committees
and Individual Directors. Policies
Your Company has adopted the following Policies which,
inter alia, include criteria for determining qualifications,
positive attributes and independence of a Director:
(a)	
Policy on Appointment of Directors and Senior
Management and succession planning for orderly
succession to the Board and the Senior Management;
and
(b)	Policy for remuneration of the Directors, Key Managerial
Personnel and other employees.
Policy (a) mentioned above includes the criteria for
determining qualifications, positive attributes and
independence of a Director, identification of persons who
are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed
in the Senior Management Team in accordance with the
criteria laid down in the said Policy, succession planning for
Directors and Senior Management, and Policy statement for
Talent Management framework of the Company.
Policy (b) mentioned above sets out the approach to
Compensation of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and
other employees in the Company. Policies mentioned at (a) and (b) above are available on the
website and can be accessed in the Governance section at
the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
policies-and-documents. Familiarisation Programme for Independent
Directors / Non-Executive Directors
The Members of the Board of the Company are afforded many
opportunities to familiarise themselves with the Company, its
Management and its operations. The Directors are provided
with all the documents to enable them to have a better
understanding of the Company, its various operations and
the industry in which it operates.
All the Independent Directors of the Company are made
aware of their roles and responsibilities at the time of
their appointment through a formal letter of appointment,
which also stipulates various terms and conditions of their
engagement.
Independent Directors meet the business and functional
heads and provide their inputs and suggestions on strategic
and operational matters at the quarterly Board/Committee
Meetings.
Executive Directors and Senior Management provide
an overview of the operations and familiarize the new
Non-Executive Directors on matters related to the Company’s
values and commitments. They are also introduced to the
organization structure, constitution of various committees,
board procedures, risk management strategies, etc.
Strategic Presentations are made to the Board where Directors
get an opportunity to interact with Senior Management.
Directors are also informed of the various developments in
the Company through Press Releases, emails, etc.
During the Financial Year , the Board offsite was held
from 17th March, to 19th March, , at Mahindra
Research Valley and at the Mahindra SUV proving track in
Chennai.
As part of the Company’s annual strategy planning
process, the Company organised a management strategy
offsite with the Board to deliberate on various topics
related to strategic planning, progress of ongoing strategic
initiatives, risks to strategy execution and the need for new
strategic programs to achieve the Company’s long-term
objectives.
This serves the dual purpose of providing the Board members
a platform to bring their expertise to various strategic initiatives, while also providing an opportunity for them to
understand detailed aspects of execution and challenges
relating to the specific theme. (a)	
in the preparation of the annual accounts for the
Financial Year ended 31st March, , the applicable
accounting standards have been followed; In summary, through this process, Members of the Board get
a comprehensive and balanced perspective on the strategic
issues facing the Company, the competitive differentiation
being pursued by the Company, and an overview of the
execution plan. (b)	they had in consultation with Statutory Auditors, selected
accounting policies and applied them consistently, and
made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and
prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Company as at 31st March, and of the
profit of the Company for the year ended on that date; In addition, this event allows Board members to interact
closely with the senior leadership of the various business
segments of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
The Company has a web based portal i.e. Board portal,
accessible to all the Directors which, inter alia, contains the
following information:
●	Roles, responsibilities and liabilities of Directors under
the Companies Act, and the Listing Regulations ●	Annual Reports
●	Code of Conduct for Directors
●	Terms and conditions of appointment of Independent
Directors.
Pursuant to Regulation () of the Listing Regulations,
the Company imparted various familiarisation programmes
for its Directors including periodic review of Investments
the Company at Strategic Investment (d)	
they have prepared the annual accounts on a going
concern basis;
(e)	they have laid down adequate Internal Financial Controls
to be followed by the Company and such Internal
Financial Controls were operating effectively during the
Financial Year ended 31st March, ; ●	Board Minutes, Agenda and Presentations of (c)	they have taken proper and sufficient care for the
maintenance of adequate accounting records in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and
for preventing and detecting fraud and irregularities; Committee Meetings, Regulatory updates, Industry Outlook, Business
Strategy at the Board Meetings and changes with respect
to the Companies Act, Taxation and other matters, Listing
Regulations, Framework for Related Party Transactions, etc.
at the Audit Committee Meetings, Economic Environment &
Global Scenario, Frontier Risks, Business Entity Risks, etc. at
the Risk Management Committee Meetings, Products Launch
and Showcase of New Vehicles, etc. The details as required
under Regulations and (1A) of the Listing Regulations
are available on the website of your Company at the web link:
https://www.mahindra.com/resources/FY24/AnnualReport.zip. Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Pursuant to section () of the Companies Act, ,
your Directors, based on the representations received
from the Operating Management and after due enquiry,
confirm that: (f)	they had devised proper systems to ensure compliance
with the provisions of all applicable laws and that
such systems were adequate and operating effectively
throughout the Financial Year ended 31st March, . Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting
A calendar of Meetings is prepared and circulated in advance
to the Directors.
During the year 1st April, to 31st March, ,
nine Board Meetings were held on: 26th May, , 7th July,
, 26th July, , 4th August, , 15th September,
, 9th and 10th November, , 2nd February, ,
14th February, and 18th and 19th March, . The
77th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company was
held on 4th August, through Video Conferencing / Other
Audio Visual Means. Meetings of Independent Directors
The Independent Directors of your Company often meet
before the Board Meetings without the presence of the
Chairman of the Board or the Managing Director or the
Executive Director or other Non-Independent Directors or
Chief Financial Officer or any other Management Personnel. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT These Meetings are conducted in an informal and flexible
manner to enable the Independent Directors to discuss
matters pertaining to, inter alia, review of performance
of Non-Independent Directors and the Board as a whole,
review the performance of the Chairman of the Company
(taking into account the views of the Executive and
Non-Executive Directors), assess the quality, quantity and
timeliness of flow of information between the Company
Management and the Board that is necessary for the
Board to effectively and reasonably perform their duties. which is developed by Institutional Investor Advisory Services
India Limited (“IiAS”) with support from International Finance
Corporation (“IFC”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”). Five Meetings of Independent Directors were held during
the year and these meetings were well attended. The Company has adopted a compliance management tool
viz. mCompliance Portal which provides system-driven alerts
to the respective owners for complying with the applicable
laws and regulations. Certificates capturing the compliance
status of all laws and regulations applicable to the Company
are generated at the end of each quarter and submitted by
the Managing Director to the Board. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee comprises of the following Directors viz.
Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee), Ms. Shikha
Sharma, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta and Mr. Haigreve Khaitan.
Subsequent to the year end, the Board at its Meeting held
on 16th May, , re-constituted the Audit Committee with
effect from 8th August, and appointed Mr. Muthiah
Murugappan as a Member in place of Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
upon completion of his tenure on 7th August, . Post the
re-constitution with effect from 8th August, , the Audit
Committee would comprise of four Directors viz. Mr. T. N.
Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee), Ms. Shikha Sharma,
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan and Mr. Muthiah Murugappan.
All the Members of the Committee are Independent Directors
and possess strong accounting and financial management
knowledge. The Company Secretary of the Company is the
Secretary of the Committee.
All the recommendations of the Audit Committee were
accepted by the Board. L. GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Your Company possesses a profound heritage of ethical
governance practices, many of which were established by the
Company even prior to their legal enforcement. Your Company
remains dedicated to transparency in all its transactions and
places significant importance on business ethics.
Your Company continued to feature in the ‘Leadership’
category in the Corporate Governance Scorecard A Report on Corporate Governance along with a Certificate
from the Statutory Auditors of the Company regarding
compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance as
stipulated under Schedule V of the Listing Regulations forms
part of this Annual Report. Compliance Management Ethics Framework
The Company’s revised Code of Conduct (the Code) for
employees outlines the commitment to the principles of
integrity, transparency, and fairness. It enables the Company
and its employees to make the right choices and demonstrate
the highest standards of integrity and ethical behaviour.
The Ethics & Governance framework is also anchored by
clearly defined policies and procedures, covering areas such
as Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (ABAC), Policy on
Gifts & Entertainment (G&E), Policy on Prevention of Sexual
Harassment at Workplace (POSH), Whistle-Blower Policy (WB),
Business Partner Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of
Conduct to ensure robust Corporate Governance.
The Code of Conduct and all the Company’s policies are
accessible on the Company’s website; in the Governance
section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/policies-and-documents and on the Rise@Work, the
Company’s intranet as well as on the mobile app Me-connect.
New joiners are mandatorily required to undertake e-learning
modules on the Code, POSH and ABAC. In addition to this, an
Annual Compliance Declaration Module is mandated for the
employees.
In order to achieve regular reinforcement of the Code and
policies across the Company; the Ethics program has the
support of Ethics Counsellors who help the Company
to amplify the values which the Company stands for and facilitate regular conversations and training with their cohorts.
The Ethics Counsellors are trained by subject matter experts
(internal/ external) on ethics and policies throughout the
year. During the year, they have trained approximately ,
employees across various geographies on the Code and policies
related to ABAC, G&E, POSH and WB. Further, your Company
has driven sensitisation on the Code and other ethics policies
vide ethical guidelines, emailers, videos, standees and posters
across locations.
The Company’s Vigil mechanism process is clearly defined
for identifying and resolving breaches related to the Code
of Conduct and the Company’s Ethics Policies. It is regularly
communicated throughout the Company vide the ‘Speak Up
campaign’. Data relating to such breaches is reviewed by
the Corporate Governance Council and the Audit Committee
that helps in determining the allocation of resources for
future policy development, any review of policies, process
improvement, training and awareness initiatives. The Corporate
Governance Council ensures that the Ethics & Governance
framework is executed effectively. The Group Ethics and
Governance Committee and Business Ethics and Governance
Committees help to ensure decisions on substantiated cases
are taken in a fair, just and consistent manner across various
functions of that business. Vigil Mechanism
The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Companies Act, read with the Rules prescribed thereunder, and the Listing
Regulations is implemented through the Company’s WhistleBlower Policy. The Whistle-Blower Policy of your Company is
available on the Company’s website and can be accessed in
the Governance section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
It enables the Directors, employees and all stakeholders of
the Company to report genuine concerns (about unethical
behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or violation of the Code)
and provides for adequate safeguards against victimisation of
persons who use such mechanism and makes provision for
direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A quarterly report on the whistle-blower complaints, as
received, is placed before the Audit Committee for its review.
During the year, the Company received whistle-blower
complaints out of which complaints were investigated
and appropriate actions were taken and investigations were
underway for the remaining complaints. All complaints are
tracked and monitored on timely basis. The Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
Redressal) Act, The Company has Zero Tolerance towards sexual harassment
at the workplace. A detailed POSH Policy is in place as per
the requirements of The Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, (“Act”). The POSH Policy of the Company is available on
the website of the Company and can be accessed in the
Governance section at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. The POSH
Policy is also available in vernacular languages. All
employees (permanent, contractual, temporary, trainees)
as defined under the Act are covered in this Policy. The
POSH Policy is gender inclusive and the framework ensures
complete anonymity and confidentiality.
Internal Complaints Committees (“IC”) have been constituted
to redress complaints of sexual harassment and the
Company has complied with the provisions relating to
the constitution of IC under the Act. While maintaining
the highest governance norms, IC are constituted for
various locations. Half of the total members of the
IC are women. The external members with requisite
experience in handling such matters are also part of the
IC. The IC is presided over by a senior woman employee in
each case. Inquiries are conducted and recommendations are
made by the IC at the respective locations. The IC is updated
on judicial trends and trained regularly on the nuances of
the Act.
During the fiscal year under review, complaints
alleging sexual harassment were filed and were
resolved by taking appropriate actions as per the
provisions of the Act. complaints are pending inquiry as of
31st March, . All complaints are tracked and monitored
on timely basis.
Continuous awareness in this area has been created
through the POSH campaign reiterating Mahindra’s
commitment to providing a safe workplace to all its
employees. During the year, the Company organised
sensitization and awareness programs vide inductions for
new joiners, e-learning modules for all employees, trainees,
associates including sending emailers, creating standees
and posters to sensitise all employees to conduct themselves
in a professional manner. Further, virtual and classroom
training sessions were conducted by the Company’s Ethics
Counsellors. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Business Responsibility and Sustainability
Report
SEBI vide its Notification dated 5th May, had amended
Regulation of the Listing Regulations, wherein SEBI has
mandated that Business Responsibility Report (“BRR”) shall be
discontinued after the Financial Year – and thereafter,
with effect from the Financial Year –, the Top ,
listed entities based on market capitalization shall submit a
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR”) in
the format as specified by SEBI from time to time.
Further, SEBI vide its Circular dated 12th July, has
provided a format for BRSR Core (consisting of a set of Key
Performance Indicators (KPIs)/metrics under attributes) for
reasonable assurance.
Top listed entities based on market capitalization are
mandatorily required to undertake reasonable assurance of
BRSR Core for the Financial Year -.
The Company has prepared the BRSR for the Financial Year
– in accordance with the format as prescribed in the
SEBI Circular dated 12th July, .
The BRSR is intended towards having quantitative and
standardized disclosures on ESG parameters to enable
comparability across companies, sectors and time. Such
disclosures will be helpful for investors to make better
investment decisions. The BRSR shall also enable companies
to engage more meaningfully with their stakeholders, by
encouraging them to look beyond financials and towards
social and environmental impacts.
The BRSR of your Company for the Financial Year -
forms part of this Annual Report as required under Regulation
()(f) of the Listing Regulations.
Your Company strongly believes that sustainable and inclusive
growth is possible by using the levers of environmental
and social responsibility while setting aspirational targets
and improving economic performance to ensure business
continuity and rapid growth.
Your Company is committed to leverage ‘Alternative Thinking’
to build competitive advantage in achieving high shareholder
returns through customer centricity, innovation, good
governance and inclusive human development while being
sensitive to the environment. Risk Management
Your Company has a well-defined risk management
framework in place. The risk management framework works
at various levels across the enterprise. These levels form the
strategic defence cover of the Company’s risk management.
The Company has a robust organizational structure for
managing and reporting on risks.
Your Company has constituted a Risk Management Committee
of the Board which is authorized to monitor and review
risk management plan and risk certificate. The Committee
is also empowered, inter alia, to review and recommend to
the Board modifications to the Risk Management Policy.
Further, the Board has constituted a Corporate Risk Council
comprising the Senior Executives of the Company. The terms
of reference of the Council include review of risks and Risk
Management Policy at periodic intervals.
Your Company has developed and implemented a Risk
Management Policy which is approved by the Board. The
Risk Management Policy, inter alia, includes identification
of risks, including cyber security and related risks and also
those which in the opinion of the Board may threaten the
existence of the Company. Risk management process has
been established across the Company and is designed to
identify, assess and frame a response to threats that affect
the achievement of its objectives. Further, it is embedded
across all the major functions and revolves around the goals
and objectives of the organization. M.	
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
At Mahindra dedication to Corporate Social Responsibility
(CSR) has remained steadfast from its inception. Your
Company’s purpose, “Drive positive change in the lives of
our communities. Only when we enable others to rise
will we rise,” serves as the guiding light.
With this ethos, your Company’s CSR vision endeavours to
create a more equal world by empowering girls, empowering
women and contributing to environmental conservation.
These focus areas are aligned with the Company’s ESG goals
and contribute to nation-building. For the last two decades, your Company has been empowering
underprivileged girls in India through Project Nanhi Kali. The
Project provides educational support to girls studying in
Government schools from Class to , enabling them to
successfully complete their schooling.
There is an urgent need to address the steadily declining
female labour force participation rate in the country, making
it a top national priority. Your Company aspires to be the
lead catalyst in enabling women’s economic empowerment
by providing them with essential skills training and unlocking
employment opportunities across industries.
Your Company’s commitment to preserving the planet
for citizens of the future can be seen through a variety of
environmental conservation initiatives which include tree
plantation, water conservation and further supporting the
livelihood of marginalised farmers.
The impact of some of the CSR projects your Company
invested in for Financial Year - are shown below:
A. Empower Girls 
Project Nanhi Kali supported the education of ,,
underprivileged girls in Financial Year . ,,
girls attended the classes on every school day at ,
Academic Support Centres in districts across states
of India. Mahindra Group supported , girls and of
these, your Company supported , girls. To align
with the recommendations of the National Education
Policy, Project Nanhi Kali introduced Digital Equalizer
for Girls (DEFG), a training program for adolescent girls.
In Financial Year , over , additional girls
were trained under this initiative across states. Of
these, Mahindra Group supported , girls and your
Company supported , girls. 
Since inception, Project Nanhi Kali has supported the
education of ,, underprivileged girls.
B. Empower Women 
Since inception, the Women’s Empowerment initiative
at Mahindra Group has impacted ,, women,
symbolising a steadfast dedication to fostering women’s
advancement. In Financial Year , this initiative
empowered ,, women who underwent various
skilling interventions as shown below:  mployability Skilling: In Financial Year , a total
E
of ,, women underwent employability-focused
skills training under this initiative. The Mahindra
Group’s flagship employability skilling program,
Mahindra Pride Classrooms (MPC) provides digital
and life skills training focused on communication and
critical thinking, thereby making the candidates more
“job-ready” and employable. The training is provided to
women who are studying in final year in Government/
Government-aided colleges, ITIs, and Polytechnic
Institutes at a Pan-India level. In Financial Year ,
the Mahindra Group supported ,, women
studying in , colleges. Of these, ,, women
were supported through your Company. An additional
, women underwent employability skills training
through another project under this initiative supported
by your Company.
Domain Skilling: In Financial Year , Mahindra
Group trained , women majorly in the domains
of automobile, IT, ITES/hospitality, healthcare, and
apparel across states. Of these , women
were trained with support provided by your Company.
This training contributed to the women securing jobs
within these Sectors.
Agri Skilling:
 egenerative Agriculture: The main objective of this
R
Project was to enable women farmers to use regenerative
agriculture practices to improve soil fertility and increase
productivity, ensuring food and nutrition security for their
families, along with enhanced income levels. Through
this Project sponsored by your Company, , women
farmers from Moga and Tarn Taran in Punjab, Shravasti
in Uttar Pradesh, and Wardha in Maharashtra were
provided knowledge in regenerative farming practices.
This intervention helped women farmers reduce their
agriculture input costs and increase income from the sale
of crops.
 arm Skilling: Under the farm skilling initiative of
F
PRERNA, your Company continued to support ,
women farmers by training them in effective farming
practices and providing them with advisory services
which include soil health, access to gender-friendly farm
equipment, linkages to Government welfare support
initiatives, resource efficient agriculture methodologies,
and increasing crop productivity. C. Environment Conservation
Project Hariyali: 
In Financial Year , the Mahindra Group planted
a total of ,, trees, of which your Company
planted ,, trees. As a result of this Project, the
livelihoods of , tribal farmer families were enhanced. varieties of fruit, forest and shade trees were planted,
further contributing to biodiversity, and improving the
quality of soil and crops. The farmers have received training in global organic
farming protocols, which help rejuvenate the soil, enhance
water retention, and increase soil organic carbon. Since inception, under this initiative a total of ,,,
trees have been planted. Of these ,,, have
been planted in Araku, supporting the livelihoods of over
, tribal farmer families.
Water Conservation: In Financial Year , your Company supported ,
farmers through various interventions related to soil and
water conservation, crop diversification and livelihood
training/support initiatives contributing to integrated
development of the rural catchment areas. Watershed
Development Fund (WDF) Projects were undertaken in
collaboration with NABARD in Igatpuri and Akole Block of
Nashik and Ahmednagar District of Maharashtra, for the
development of Kadva River Basin, covering around villages. Apart from the above Project, your Company has
worked in other geographies and deployed region-specific
water management interventions covering States. Through all these initiatives, water harvesting
structures have been created and renovated, , lakh
litres of water harvesting potential created, resulting in
an increase in irrigation potential across , hectares.
Cumulatively , hectares was covered under water
management initiatives and , farmers and community
members have benefitted through water conservation.
D. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Employee Volunteering Beyond the core CSR focus areas, employee
volunteering is an important part of giving back and
enabling others to Rise. 
Mahindra Group has a robust volunteering programme
through the Employee Social Options (Esops) and MySeva platforms. While Esops volunteering events are organised
by Mahindra Group, MySeva recognises individual acts
of social responsibility undertaken by Mahindra Group
employees. 
Employee
volunteering
initiatives
encompass
varied activities such as blood donation drives, tree
plantation, cleanliness drives, health check-up camps,
visits to Government schools, and diverse community
engagement activities. Mahindra Group employees
invested ,, person hours through Esops and
,, person hours were contributed through
MySeva. Your Company’s employees contributed
, person hours towards a variety of social causes,
of which , person hours were invested through
Esops and person hours were contributed through
MySeva. The second edition of Mahindra Volunteering
Day was held on 5th December, wherein ,
enthusiastic volunteers contributed , person
hours in various activities.
 uring the last Financial Year, your Company was
D
humbled to receive the following awards for its
contribution to society.
.	All India Management Association (AIMA) - Project Hariyali
was awarded the Runner Up Award at the 10th Business
Responsibility Summit and Project Excellence Contest &
Recognition (August )
.	
Brandon Hall Group Gold Award in the ‘Best Initiative
for Philanthropy and Corporate Giving’ category
for the Project Livelihood Generation through Farm
Mechanization (August )
.	‘Best CSR Initiative’ at ITOTY Awards for Project Hunnar
(July )
.	10th CSR Times Award by MOS Health & Family Welfare
Government of India for Project Prerna (August )
.	Golden Peacock Award for Corporate Social Responsibility
for Project Paani (December )
.	National Awards for Excellence in CSR & Sustainability
under the category “Best CSR Impact Initiative” for
Project Paani (September )
.	“CSR Excellence in Water Conservation & Management”
category at India CSR & Sustainability Conclave for
Project Green Guardian (September ) .	
Global CSR Excellence & Leadership Award under the
category of “Community Development” for Project Farm
Mechanization (February ) of four Directors viz. Mr. Muthiah Murugappan (Chairman of
the Committee), Mr. Anand Mahindra, Dr. Anish Shah and Ms.
Padmasree Warrior. .	
Women Empowerment Award at the Global CSR
Leadership Awards for Employability Enhancement
Training Project (March ) The Committee, inter alia, reviews and monitors the CSR as
well as Business Responsibility and Sustainability activities. .	Sat Paul Mittal Gold Award at the Sat Paul Mittal National
Awards held in Ludhiana (November )
.	Project Nanhi Kali’s film, Lajjo won several awards
both nationally and internationally, spanning categories
including CSR Campaign, Best Online Integrated
Marketing, Viral Video and Casting and Performance. CSR Policy During the year under review, your Company spent Rs. .
crores on CSR activities. The amount equal to % of the
average net profit for the past three financial years required
to be spent on CSR activities was Rs. . crores. The
Board has considered the Impact Assessment Reports at its
meeting held on 16th May, . The detailed Annual Report
on the CSR activities undertaken by your Company in the
Financial Year along with the Executive Summary for
Impact Assessment Reports of the applicable projects, is
annexed herewith and marked as Annexure VI. The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee had formulated
and recommended to the Board, a Corporate Social
Responsibility Policy (CSR Policy) which was subsequently
adopted by it and is being implemented by the Company.
The CSR Policy including a brief overview of the projects or
programs undertaken by the Company can be accessed in
the Governance section of the website, the link of the same
is https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments. The complete Impact Assessment Reports of the applicable
projects can be accessed at the Web-link: https://www.
mahindra.com/resources/FY24/AnnualReport.zip. CSR Committee Your Company plans to build a ‘Planet Positive Mahindra’ by
focusing on three key pillars, greening ourselves, decarbonizing
the industry and rejuvenating the nature. Under pillar
greening ourselves, the Company focuses on enhancing use
of renewable energy, improving energy and water productivity,
embedding material circularity and ensures no waste goes
to landfill. To decarbonize the industry, transition to electric
vehicles and alternate fuels, enabling supply chain to follow
environment friendly practices and end of vehicle recycling
are major considered aspects. Beyond the industry boundary,
to rejuvenate the nature, the Company aims regenerative
farming, planting over million trees every year, investing
in green technologies like solar, green buildings and micro
irrigation. Group companies have set targets aligned to Planet
Positive framework. The targets are discussed and reviewed
in Group Sustainability Council chaired by Dr. Anish Shah,
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer. The Board at its Meeting held on 18th and 19th March, re-constituted the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
(CSR Committee). Dr. Vishakha N. Desai ceased to be the
Chairperson and Member of the Committee with effect from
1st May, , upon completion of her second term as an
Independent Director of the Company and Mr. Vikram Singh
Mehta was inducted in her place as Chairman of the CSR
Committee.
The CSR Committee currently comprises of Mr. Vikram Singh
Mehta (Chairman), Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Dr. Anish Shah, and
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan.
Subsequent to the year end, the Board at its Meeting held
on 16th May, , re-constituted the CSR Committee by
inducting Ms. Padmasree Warrior as a Member with effect
from 17th May, and appointed Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
as the Chairman with effect from 8th August, in place
of Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta upon completion of his tenure
on 7th August, . Post the re-constitution with effect
from 8th August, , the CSR Committee would comprise Sustainability
During the year under review, the 16th Sustainability Report
for the year - was released. The Report was externally
assured by KPMG and prepared in accordance with the GRI
(Global Reporting Initiative) Standards. ESG information of the Company has been disclosed under
Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure
Project (CDP) and World Economic Forum’s (WEF) stakeholder
capitalism metrics. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Your Company has committed to Science Based Target,
an initiative to restrict average global temperature rise in
alignment of Paris Climate Change Agreement. The Group is
committed to become Carbon Neutral by . and ,, Unclassified shares of Rs. each and
,,, Preference Shares of Rs. each. There was
no change in the Authorised Share Capital of the Company
during the year under review. The Sustainability performance of your Company for the
Financial Year - will be elaborated in detail in the
GRI Report which is under preparation and will be ready for
release shortly. The issued, subscribed and paid-up Share Capital of
the Company stood at Rs. . crores divided into
,,, Ordinary (Equity) shares of Rs. each. There
was no change in the issued, subscribed and paid-up Share
Capital of the Company during the year under review. Your Company was recognized for its leadership position on
the ESG dimensions during the year under review, by way of:
●	Winner of Best ESG Company in the Automobile
Category (Passenger & Commercial Vehicles), given by
Dun & Bradstreet India.
●	Only automobile company globally disclosing Core &
Expanded metrics as per WEF’s Stakeholder Capitalism
Metrics during the year .
●	Part of Dow Jones Sustainability world & emerging
market Indices, for the 3rd consecutive year, only Indian
automobile company to do so.
●	Felicitated by CDP as a part of Supplier Engagement
Rating Leadership Board for the year . Compliance
with
the
provisions
of
Secretarial Standard and Secretarial
Standard The applicable Secretarial Standards, i.e. SS- and SS-,
relating to ‘Meetings of the Board of Directors’ and ‘General
Meetings’ respectively, have been duly complied by your
Company. Annual Return
Pursuant to section ()(a) and section () of the
Companies Act, read with Rule () of the Companies
(Management and Administration) Rules, , a copy of the
Annual Return is placed on the website of the Company and
can be accessed at the Web-link: https://www.mahindra.com/
resources/FY24/ AnnualReport.zip. ●	Inclusion in S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook . Conservation
of
Energy,
Technology
Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings
and Outgo
The information pertaining to conservation of energy,
technology absorption, foreign exchange earnings and outgo
as required under section ()(m) of the Companies Act, read with Rule () of the Companies (Accounts)
Rules, is attached as Annexure VII and forms part of
this Report. N. SECRETARIAL O. POLICIES
The details of the Key Policies adopted by the Company are
mentioned at Annexure VIII to the Board’s Report. P.	PROCEEDINGS UNDER THE INSOLVENCY AND
BANKRUPTCY CODE, ( OF )
There is one proceeding initiated / pending against your
Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which does not materially impact the business of the
Company. The Company would contest the matter based on
its Merits. Share Capital Q. GENERAL During the year under review, the Authorised Share Capital
of the Company stood at Rs. ,. crores divided into
,,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each Neither the Managing Director nor the Executive Director
received any remuneration or commission from any of the
subsidiaries of your Company. Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is required
in respect of the following items as there were no transactions/
events on these items during the year under review:
.	Issue of equity shares with differential rights as to
dividend, voting or otherwise.
.	
Issue of Shares (including Sweat Equity Shares) to
employees of the Company under any Scheme save
and except Employees Stock Option Schemes (ESOS)
referred to in this Report.
.	Significant or material orders passed by the Regulators
or Courts or Tribunals which impact the going concern
status and the Company’s operation in future.
.	
Voting rights which are not directly exercised by the
employees in respect of shares for the subscription/
purchase of which loan was given by the Company
(as there is no scheme pursuant to which such persons
can beneficially hold shares as envisaged under
section ()(c) of the Companies Act, ). .	There has been no change in the nature of business of
your Company.
.	The Company has not made any one-time settlement for
loans taken from the Banks or Financial Institutions, and
hence the details of difference between amount of the
valuation done at the time of one time settlement and
the valuation done while taking loan from the Banks or
Financial Institutions along with the reasons thereof is
not applicable.
.	There was no revision of financial statements and Board’s
Report of the Company during the year under review.
For and on behalf of the Board
ANAND G. MAHINDRA
Chairman
DIN: Mumbai, 16th May, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT ANNEXURE I v. Dividend would continue to be declared on per share basis on the Ordinary Equity Shares of the Company having face value
Rs. each. The Company currently has no other class of shares. Therefore, dividend declared will be distributed amongst all
shareholders, based on their shareholding on the record date.
Dividends will generally be recommended by the Board once a year, after the announcement of the full year results and before
the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the shareholders, as may be permitted by the Companies Act. The Board may also declare
interim dividends as may be permitted by the Companies Act.
The Company has had a consistent dividend policy that balances the objective of appropriately rewarding shareholders through
dividends and to support the future growth.
As in the past, subject to the provisions of the applicable law, the Company’s dividend payout will be determined based on
available financial resources, investment requirements and taking into account optimal shareholder return. Within these
parameters, the Company would endeavor to maintain a total dividend pay-out ratio in the range of % to % of the annual
standalone Profits after Tax (PAT) of the Company.
While determining the nature and quantum of the dividend payout, including amending the suggested payout range as above,
the Board would take into account the following factors:
● Internal Factors:
i. Profitable growth of the Company and specifically, profits earned during the financial year as compared with:
a. b. Previous years and
Internal budgets, ii.	Cash flow position of the Company,
iii.	Accumulated reserves,
iv.	Earnings stability,
v. Future cash requirements for organic growth/expansion and/or for inorganic growth, vi. Brand acquisitions,
vii. Current and future leverage and, under exceptional circumstances, the amount of contingent liabilities,
viii. Deployment of funds in short term marketable investments,
ix. Long term investments,
x. Capital expenditure(s), and xi. The ratio of debt to equity (at net debt and gross debt level).
● External Factors:
i. Business cycles, ii. Economic environment, iii. Cost of external financing, iv. Applicable taxes including tax on dividend, Industry outlook for the future years, vi. Inflation rate, and Dividend Distribution Policy
The Dividend Distribution Policy (“the policy”) establishes the principles to ascertain amounts that can be distributed to equity
shareholders as dividend by the Company as well as enable the Company strike balance between pay-out and retained earnings,
in order to address future needs of the Company. The policy shall come into force for accounting periods beginning from
1st April, . vii. Changes in the Government policies, industry specific rulings & regulatory provisions.
Apart from the above, the Board also considers past dividend history and sense of shareholders’ expectations while determining
the rate of dividend. The Board may additionally recommend special dividend in special circumstances.
The Board may consider not declaring dividend or may recommend a lower payout for a given financial year, after analyzing the
prospective opportunities and threats or in the event of challenging circumstances such as regulatory and financial environment.
In such event, the Board will provide rationale in the Annual Report.
The retained earnings of the Company may be used in any of the following ways:
i. Capital expenditure for working capital, ii. Organic and/or inorganic growth, iii. Investment in new business(es) and/or additional investment in existing business(es), iv. Declaration of dividend, v. Capitalisation of shares, vi. Buy back of shares,
vii. General corporate purposes, including contingencies,
viii. Correcting the capital structure,
ix. Any other permitted usage as per the Companies Act, .
Information on dividends paid in the last years is provided in the Annual Report.
This policy may be reviewed periodically by the Board. Any changes or revisions to the policy will be communicated to
shareholders in a timely manner.
The policy will be available on the Company’s website and the link to the policy is: https://www.mahindra.com/resources/
investorreports/FY17/Governance/MM-Dividend-Distribution-Policy----Final.pdf
The policy will also be disclosed in the Company’s annual report. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT ANNEXURE II ANNEXURE III
Form No. AOC– SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
For the financial year ended 31st March, [Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section () of section of the Act and Rule () of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, ]
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties referred
to in sub-section () of section of the Companies Act, including certain arms length transactions under third
proviso thereto
. Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arms length basis— There were no contracts or arrangements or transactions entered into during the year ended 31st March, , which were
not at arms length basis.
. Details of material contracts or arrangement or transactions at arms length basis— There were no material contracts or arrangements or transactions for the year ended 31st March, as per the provisions
of the Companies Act, . Thus this disclosure is not applicable. For and on behalf of the Board
ANAND G. MAHINDRA
Chairman
DIN: Mumbai, May, th [Pursuant to section () of the Companies Act, and Rule No. of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, ]
To,
The Members,
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building
Apollo Bunder
Mumbai I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to
good corporate practices by Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis
for evaluating the corporate conduct/statutory compliances
and expressing my opinion thereon.
Auditor’s Responsibility:
My responsibility is to express an opinion on the compliance
of the applicable laws and maintenance of records based
on audit. I have conducted the audit in accordance with
the applicable Auditing Standards issued by The Institute of
Company Secretaries of India. The Auditing Standards requires
that the Auditor shall comply with statutory and regulatory
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about compliance with applicable laws
and maintenance of records.
Due to the inherent limitations of audit including internal,
financial and operating controls, there is an unavoidable
risk that some material misstatements or material noncompliances may not be detected, even though the audit
is properly planned and performed in accordance with the
Standards.
Unmodified opinion:
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers,
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records
maintained by the Company and also the information
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorised
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I
hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on
31st March, , complied with the statutory provisions
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper
Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to the
extent, in the manner and as reported hereinafter.
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company
for the financial year ended on 31st March, according
to the provisions of:
(i)	The Companies Act, (the Act) and the rules made
thereunder;
(ii)	The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, (‘SCRA’)
and the rules made thereunder;
(iii)	The Depositories Act, and the Regulations and
Bye-laws framed thereunder;
(iv)	Foreign Exchange Management Act, and the rules
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of
foreign direct investment, overseas direct investment
and external commercial borrowings;
(v)	The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, (‘SEBI Act’):
(a)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Regulations, ;
(b)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, ;
(c)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, (Not applicable to the Company during the Audit
period);
(d)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity shares)
Regulations, ; MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT (e)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and
Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations,
;
(f)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents)
Regulations, regarding the Companies Act and
dealing with client;
(g)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting
of Equity Shares) Regulations, (Not applicable
to the Company during the Audit period); and
(h)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback
of Securities) Regulations, (Not applicable to
the Company during the Audit period).
I further report that having regard to the compliance system
prevailing in the Company and on examination of the relevant
documents and records in pursuance thereof, the Company
has complied with the following law applicable specifically to
the Company:
The Motor Vehicles Act, and the Rules made
thereunder.
I have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses
of the following:
(i)	Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company
Secretaries of India;
(ii)	Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with
BSE Ltd. and the National Stock Exchange of India
Ltd. read with The Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, .
During the period under review the Company has complied
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
Standards, etc. mentioned above. ANNEXURE IV I further report that:
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive
Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the
composition of the Directors took place during the period
under review were carried out in compliance with the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at
least seven days in advance (except meetings convened at a
shorter notice) and a system exists for seeking and obtaining
further information and clarifications on the agenda items
before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the
meeting.
As per the minutes of the meetings, duly recorded and
signed by the Chairman, the decisions of the Board and its
committees were unanimous.
I further report that there are adequate systems and
processes in the Company commensurate with the size and
operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance
with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period, the Company
filed a petition in the National Company Law Tribunal at
Mumbai for sanctioning the Scheme of Merger by Absorption
of Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited and Mahindra Two
Wheelers Limited and Trringo.com Limited with the Company
under sections to of the Companies Act, . Secretarial compliance report of Mahindra and Mahindra Limited for the financial year ended March , To, a)	The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, (“SEBI Act”) and the Regulations, circulars, guidelines
issued thereunder; and The Board of Directors
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building,
Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai I have conducted the review of the compliance of the applicable
statutory provisions and the adherence to good corporate
practices by Mahindra and Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred
as ‘the listed entity’), having its Registered Office at Gateway
Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai . Secretarial Review was
conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for
evaluating the corporate conduct / statutory compliances and to
provide my observations thereon. b)	The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, (“SCRA”),
rules made thereunder and the Regulations, circulars,
guidelines issued thereunder by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”);
The specific Regulations, whose provisions and the circulars/
guidelines issued thereunder, have been examined, include:a)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, ;
b)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, (Not
applicable to the listed entity during the Review Period); Based on my verification of the listed entity’s books, papers, minutes
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by
the listed entity and also the information provided by the listed
entity, its officers, agents and authorized representatives during
the conduct of Secretarial Review, I hereby report that the listed
entity has during the review period covering the financial year
ended on March , , complied with the statutory provisions
listed hereunder in the manner and as reported hereinafter: c)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, ;
d)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy-back of
Securities) Regulations, (Not applicable to the listed
entity during the Review Period);
e)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based
Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, ;
f)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing
of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, ; I have examined:
a)	All the documents and records made available to me
and explanation provided by the listed entity, Sachin Bhagwat b)	The filings/ submissions made by the listed entity to the
stock exchanges, ACS: c) CP: Place: Pune
Date: May, UDIN: A010189F000378392
PR No.: / h)	Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and
Participants) Regulations, to the extent applicable Website of the listed entity, d)	Any other document / filing, as may be relevant, which
has been relied upon to make this report for the financial
year ended on March , (“Review Period”) in
respect of compliance with the provisions of:
I. g)	
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of
Insider Trading) Regulations, ; and based on the above examination, I hereby report that during
the Review Period: (a)	The listed entity has complied with the provisions of the above Regulations and circulars / guidelines issued thereunder except,
in respect of matters specified below:
Compliance
Requirement Regulation/
Circular Deviations Action taken Type of action
by Details of
violations Not applicable Fine Amount Observations/ Management
Remarks of
response
the Practicing
Company
Secretary Remarks MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT (b) The listed entity has taken the following actions to comply with the observations made in previous reports:
Compliance
Requirement Regulation/
Circular Deviations Action taken Type of action
by Details of
violations Fine Amount Observations/ Management
Remarks of
response
the Practicing
Company
Secretary III. . II.	Compliances related to the resignation of statutory auditors from the listed entity and its material subsidiaries as per SEBI circular
. Sr.
No. Particulars . Compliances with the following conditions while appointing/re-appointing an auditor
i.	If the auditor has resigned within days from the end of a quarter of a
financial year, the auditor before such resignation, has issued the limited
review/ audit report for such quarter; or Compliance Status Observations / remarks by PCS
(Yes/No/NA) NA ii.	If the auditor has resigned after days from the end of a quarter of a
financial year, the auditor before such resignation, has issued the limited
review/ audit report for such quarter as well as the next quarter; or The conditions stipulated in the above
referred SEBI Circular have been included
in the terms of appointment of the
Statutory Auditors. . . Other conditions relating to resignation of statutory auditor
i.	Reporting of concerns by Auditor with respect to the listed entity/its
material subsidiary to the Audit Committee: NA Please refer to observation at Sr. No. above a.	In case of any concern with the management of the listed entity/material
subsidiary such as non-availability of information / non-cooperation by
the management which has hampered the audit process, the auditor has
approached the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the listed entity and
the Audit Committee shall receive such concern directly and immediately
without specifically waiting for the quarterly Audit Committee meetings. . Yes — All applicable policies under SEBI Regulations are adopted with the approval of board
of directors of the listed entity. Yes — All the policies are in conformity with SEBI Regulations and have been reviewed and
updated on time, as per the regulations/circulars/guidelines issued by SEBI. Yes — The Listed entity is maintaining a functional website; Yes — Timely dissemination of the documents/ information under a separate section on the
website; Yes — Web-links provided in Annual Corporate Governance Reports under Regulation ()
are accurate and specific which re- directs to the relevant document(s)/ section of the
website. Yes — Yes — Adoption and timely updating of the Policies: Maintenance and disclosures on Website: Disqualification of Director: Details related to Subsidiaries of listed entity have been examined w.r.t.:
(a) Identification of material subsidiary companies; Yes — (b) Disclosure requirement of material as well as other subsidiaries. Yes — Yes — Yes — a)	The listed entity has obtained prior approval of Audit Committee for all related
party transactions; or (a) Yes — b)	The listed entity has provided detailed reasons along with confirmation whether
the transactions were subsequently approved/ratified/rejected by the Audit
Committee, in case no prior approval has been obtained. (b) NA Preservation of Documents:
The listed entity is preserving and maintaining records as prescribed under SEBI
Regulations and disposal of records as per Policy of Preservation of Documents and
Archival policy prescribed under SEBI LODR Regulations, . . Performance Evaluation:
The listed entity has conducted performance evaluation of the Board, Independent
Directors and the Committees on an annual basis as prescribed in SEBI Regulations. . c.	The Audit Committee / Board of Directors, as the case may be, shall
deliberate on the matter on receipt of such information from the auditor
relating to the proposal to resign as mentioned above and communicate its
views to the management and the auditor.
ii.
Disclaimer in case of non-receipt of information: The auditor has provided an appropriate disclaimer in its audit report, which
is in accordance with the Standards of Auditing as specified by ICAI / NFRA,
in case where the listed entity/ its material subsidiary has not provided
information as required by the auditor. NA The listed entity / its material subsidiary has obtained information from the
Auditor upon resignation, in the format as specified in Annexure- A in SEBI
Circular CIR/CFD/CMD1// dated 18th October, . NA Please refer to observation at Sr. No. above
.
The Statutory auditor did not resign
during the Review Period. Compliance Status Observations / remarks by PCS
(Yes/No/NA) Secretarial Standards: None of the Director(s) of the listed entity is disqualified under Section of
Companies Act, . b.	In case the auditor proposes to resign, all concerns with respect to the
proposed resignation, along with relevant documents has been brought to
the notice of the Audit Committee. In cases where the proposed resignation
is due to non-receipt of information / explanation from the company,
the auditor shall inform the Audit Committee the details of information/
explanation sought and not provided by the management, as applicable. . . The Statutory auditor did not resign during
the Review Period. iii.	If the auditor has signed the limited review/ audit report for the first three
quarters of a financial year, the auditor before such resignation, has issued
the limited review/ audit report for the last quarter of such financial year
as well as the audit report for such financial year. Particulars The compliances of the listed entity are in accordance with the applicable Secretarial
Standards (SS) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), as notified
by the Central Government under section () of the Companies Act, and
mandatorily applicable. Not applicable CIR/CFD/CMD1// dated October, : I hereby report that, during the Review Period, the compliance status of the listed entity is appended as below: Sr.
No. Remarks Related Party Transactions: Please refer to point No. (a) Disclosure of events or information:
The listed entity has provided all the required disclosure(s) under Regulation along
with Schedule III of SEBI LODR Regulations, within the time limits prescribed
thereunder. Yes — Sr.
No. . Particulars Yes Yes ANNEXURE V
DETAILS OF REMUNERATION
Details pertaining to remuneration as required under section () read with Rule () of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, — The remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary, percentage increase in their remuneration
during the Financial Year - and ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees
of the Company for the Financial Year - are as under: Additional Non-compliances, if any:
No additional non-compliance observed for any SEBI regulation/ circular/guidance
note etc. NA Sr.
No. Name of Director/KMP Designation Remuneration
of Director/
KMP for the
Financial Year
-
(Rs. in crores)
(Excluding
perquisite
value of
ESOPs
exercised) Remuneration
of Director/
KMP for the
Financial Year
-
(Rs. in crores)
(Including
perquisite
value of
ESOPs
exercised) % increase in
Remuneration
in the
Financial Year
-
(Excluding
perquisite
value of
ESOPs
exercised) . Mr. Anand G. Mahindra# Chairman .€ .€ .% .% . . Dr. Anish Shah Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer . . .% .% . . Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Executive Director and
CEO (Auto and Farm
Sector) . . .% .% . . Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta# Independent Director . . .% .% . . Dr. Vishakha N. Desai# Independent Director . . -.% -.% . . Mr. T. N. Manoharan# Independent Director . . .% .% . . Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
(Nominee of LIC)$#^ Nominee Director . . -.% -.% . . Mr. Haigreve Khaitan# * Independent Director . . .% .% . . Ms. Shikha Sharma Independent Director . . .% .% . . Ms. Nisaba Godrej# Independent Director . . .% .% . . Mr. Muthiah Murugappan# Independent Director . . .% .% . . Mr. CP Gurnani**^^ Non-Executive Director — — — — — . Mr. Manoj Bhat Group Chief
Officer . . .% .% — . Mr. Narayan Shankar Company Secretary . . .% .% — No non-compliance was observed. Assumptions & Limitation of scope and Review:
.	Compliance of the applicable laws and ensuring the authenticity of documents and information furnished, are the responsibilities
of the management of the listed entity.
.	My responsibility is to report based upon my examination of relevant documents and information. This is neither an audit nor an
expression of opinion.
. I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial Records and Books of Accounts of the listed entity. .	This Report is solely for the intended purpose of compliance in terms of Regulation 24A () of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, and is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the listed entity nor of the
efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the listed entity. Place: Pune
Date: May, — Actions taken by SEBI or Stock Exchange(s), if any:
No action(s) has been taken against the listed entity/ its promoters/ directors/
subsidiaries either by SEBI or by Stock Exchanges (including under the Standard
Operating Procedures issued by SEBI through various circulars) under SEBI Regulations
and circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder. . Compliance Status Observations / remarks by PCS
(Yes/No/NA) Prohibition of Insider Trading:
The listed entity is in compliance with Regulation () & () of SEBI (Prohibition of
Insider Trading) Regulations, . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Sachin Bhagwat
ACS No.: C. P. No.: UDIN: A010189F000370417
PR No.: / # Financial # The remuneration includes sitting fees and commission. € In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme. % increase in
Ratio of
Remuneration Remuneration
in the
of each
Financial Year
Director
-
to median
(Including remuneration
perquisite
(Including
value of
perquisite
ESOPs
value of
exercised)
ESOPs
exercised) of
employees for
the Financial
Year - $ Commission was paid / is payable to Life Insurance Corporation of India. * Sitting fees was paid to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a Partner and Commission will be paid to Mr. Haigreve Khaitan. ** Mr. CP Gurnani has waived his right to receive sitting fees / remuneration during his tenure as a Non-Executive Director of the Company. ^ Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma has resigned as Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director of the Company with effect from 20th December, on account of
withdrawal of his nomination by Life Insurance Corporation of India upon him attaining the age of years.
^^	Mr. CP Gurnani has resigned as Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director of the Company with effect from 20th December, coinciding with his
retirement as Managing Director and CEO at Tech Mahindra Limited.
Note: All amounts are rounded off. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT I.	The ratio of the remuneration of each director to
the median remuneration of the employees of the
company for the Financial Year: The median remuneration of employees of the Company
during the Financial Year was Rs. . lakhs and ratio
of the remuneration of each Director to the median
remuneration of the employees of the Company for the
Financial Year is provided in the above table.
II.	The percentage increase in the median remuneration
of employees: In the Financial Year, there was an increase of .% in
the median remuneration of employees.
III.	The number of permanent employees on the rolls of
Company: There were , permanent employees on the rolls of
the Company as on 31st March, .
IV.	Average percentile increase already made in the
salaries of employees other than the managerial
personnel in the last Financial Year and its comparison
with the percentile increase in the managerial
remuneration and justification thereof and point
out if there are any exceptional circumstances for
increase in the managerial remuneration: 
Average percentage increase made in the salaries of
employees other than the managerial personnel in
the Financial Year i.e. - was .% whereas
the increase in the managerial remuneration for the
Financial Year - was .%. ANNEXURE VI The remuneration of the Managing Director and
Executive Director is decided based on the individual
performance as well as performance of the Company,
inflation, prevailing industry trends and benchmarks. . The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors consists
of commission and sitting fees. While deciding the
remuneration, various factors such as Director’s
participation in Board and Committee Meetings during
the year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as
Membership or Chairmanship of Committees, time
spent in carrying out other duties, role and functions as
envisaged in Schedule IV of the Companies Act, and
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, and such other factors as the
Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
may deem fit etc. were taken into consideration.
V.	Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the
remuneration policy of the company: It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid is as
per the Policy for Remuneration of the Directors, Key
Managerial Personnel and other Employees. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (“CSR”) ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR -
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company At Mahindra the core purpose is to “Drive positive change in the lives of our communities. Only when we enable
others to rise will we rise”. This has propelled the Company’s CSR endeavours to play a catalytic role in bringing about
social, economic, and environmental change by investing in projects that empowered girls and women and contributed to
environmental conservation. This enabled your Company to achieve a higher social impact on the communities and the
planet. The CSR Policy of your Company outlines this purpose and direction given by the Board of Directors of your Company,
as per the recommendations of its Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (“CSR Committee”), and includes guiding
principles for selection, implementation and monitoring of CSR activities as well as formulation of the annual CSR action
plan. The CSR projects undertaken are also listed in the CSR policy. Also, in accordance with the Companies Act, , your Company has committed % (Profit before Tax) annually towards
CSR initiatives.
. Composition of the CSR Committee:
Sr.
No. Name of Director Designation/
Nature of
Directorship Number of
Number of
meetings of
meetings of
CSR Committee CSR Committee
held during the attended during
year
the year . Dr. Vishakha N. Desai* Chairperson . Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Member . Dr. Anish Shah Member . Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta* Member . Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Member *	Dr. Vishakha N. Desai ceased to be the Chairperson and Member of the Committee with effect from 1st May, ,
upon completion of her term as an Independent Director of your Company and the Committee was re-constituted by
appointing Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta in her place as the Chairman of the Committee with effect from 1st May, . Ms. Padmasree Warrior would be inducted as a Member of the Committee with effect from 17th May, .
.	Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board
are disclosed on the website of the company.
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents
.	Provide the executive summary along with web-Link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR projects carried out in
pursuance of Sub rule () of rule , if applicable 
Your Company has commissioned Chrysalisis Services Private Limited ( Projects) and BlueSky Sustainable Business LLP
(For Project Hariyali) to carry out independent 3rd Party Impact Assessment Studies for CSR projects conducted in FY -.
The Executive summary of the projects is provided in this annexure. The weblink for all the impact assessment reports is given
below :https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT (a) Average net profit of the company as per sub-section () of section : Rs. ,,,,.
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub- section () of Section : Rs. ,,,. .	Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent
in the Financial Year (c) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial year: NIL Yes (d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: NIL (a) 
Amount spent on CSR projects (both ongoing project and other than ongoing project): Rs. ,,,.
(Other than ongoing)
(b) Amount spent on administrative overheads: Rs. ,,,.
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Rs. ,,. Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in
the financial year: Not Applicable
Sl.
No. Short particulars of the
property or asset(s)
[including complete address
and location of the property] Pin code of
the property
or asset(s) Date of
creation Amount of CSR
Spent
(in Rs.) Details of entity/beneficiary of the registered owner () () () () () () (d) Total Amount spent for the financial year [(a) + (b) + (c)]: Rs. ,,,.
(e) CSR Amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount Spent for the
Financial Year (in Rs.) ,,,. CSR Registration Amount Unspent (in Rs.)
Total Amount transferred to
Unspent CSR Account as per
section ()
Amount Date of
Transfer Name of the
Fund Amount Date of
Transfer NIL N/A N/A NIL N/A Particular
() Amount (in Rs.)
() Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section() of section (ii) Total amount spent for the Financial Year (iii) Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)] (iv) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial
years, if any
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)] Preceding Financial
Year Amount
transferred to
Unspent CSR
Account under
sub section ()
of Section (in Rs.) Balance Amount in
Unspent CSR Account
under sub section ()
of section (in Rs) Amount spent in the
Financial Year (in Rs.) Total – (All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office / Municipal Corporation /
Gram panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries) . Details of unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial years: Not Applicable
Sl.
No. Registered address Amount transferred to any fund specified under
Schedule VII as per second proviso to sub section
() of section (i) (v) Name Number, if applicable (f) Excess amount for set-off, if any : Not Applicable
S.
No.
() No If yes, enter the Number of capital Assets created / Acquired - Not Applicable (e) Total CSR Obligation for the financial year [(b) + (c) – (d)] : Rs. ,,,.
. Amount transferred to a fund
specified under Schedule VII as per
Second proviso to Sub section ()
of section , if any
Amount
(In Rs) Date of transfer Amount
Deficiency, If any
remaining to
be spent in
succeeding
financial years.
(In Rs.) .	Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two percent of the average net profit as per sub-section
() of section – Not applicable ANISH SHAH VIKRAM SINGH MEHTA Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Chairman – CSR Committee DIN: DIN: Mumbai, 16th May, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Executive Summary of Impact Assessment Reports
A brief outline of projects for which Impact Assessment
was carried out and the Executive Summary of Impact
Assessment Reports are given below:
Project Hariyali
Project Hariyali, initiated in , is the Group’s flagship
afforestation program aimed at enhancing green cover and
addressing ecological imbalance. In , the project expanded
to the Araku Valley in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh to
develop a functional forest for the tribal community by
planting varieties of fruit, forest, and shade trees. Since
, Project Hariyali has extended its reach to Solan in
Himachal Pradesh, Tarn Taran and Moga in Punjab, Shravasti
in Uttar Pradesh, and Wardha in Maharashtra. ,,,
trees have been planted through Project Hariyali since
inception. In FY -, ,, trees were planted in
Araku Valley, Vishakhapatnam under this project. The impact
assessment study was undertaken for tree plantation done
in FY - in Araku Valley, Vishakhapatnam.
Impact assessment process has highlighted the following
outcomes:
●	The study showed a phenomenal sapling survival rate of
.%.
●	Regenerative agriculture practices propagated in Hariyali
project such as the application of high-quality carbon-rich
compost, soil biodiversity restoration and organic matter
rebuilding by planting fruit, forest and shade trees for
coffee plantation have contributed to long-term impact
of soil regeneration and improved biodiversity.
●	The project has transformed degraded, dry, thorny terrain
into areas with increased tree cover, reducing temperature
around the homestead and preventing soil runoff.
●	Trees like jackfruit, lemon, sweet lime, guava and
mangoes are popular choices, providing for personal
consumption of farmers thereby supplementing their
nutritional needs and income opportunities through
weekly markets.
●	Improved understanding of farm ecology is evidenced in
survival rates, best practices for pest control, and soil
fertility enhancement.
●	As part of impact assessment, Project Hariyali has
been awarded the Platinum rating for FY - by
BlueSky Sustainability Business LLP (NABCB accredited
“Type A” Inspection body). The platinum category of
CSR performance demonstrates: ) Sustainability
commitment; ) Leadership visionary on social
responsibility; and ) Stakeholder partnership and multiorganisational alliances. Project Nanhi Kali
The Company partnered with K. C. Mahindra Education Trust
and Naandi Foundation to provide comprehensive support to
the underprivileged girls studying in Classes to . Through
the Nanhi Kali after school academic support classes (ASCs),
each girl received access to an AI-powered personalised
adaptive learning software preloaded onto digital tablets,
that matched instructions to the learning levels of each girl,
ensuring that she learnt with understanding. Additionally,
every girl was given a school supplies kit which also included
feminine hygiene materials for secondary school girls,
enabling them to attend school with dignity. A professionally
designed sports curriculum was integrated into the program
to promote holistic development.
During FY -, , girls were supported across states by the Company. Stakeholder and beneficiary
engagement during the impact assessment process has
highlighted the following outcomes for projects initiated in
FY -:
●	% of Nanhi Kalis showed increased interest in studies
due to Academic Support Centres.
●	Improvements in learning levels were noted in all
beneficiaries, with % in local language, % in
Mathematics, and % in English showing increased
learning levels.
●	% of Nanhi Kalis expressed feeling happiest when
learning through a tablet since it makes learning exciting
and easy.
●	% of Nanhi Kalis shared that they felt motivated
to study due to the support provided by Community
Associates.
●	% of Nanhi Kalis expressed satisfaction with the
school kit (school bag, stationery, pullover, raincoat)
provided to them. During the in-depth interviews with
them, it was noted that they are now more aware of
good hygiene and have replaced cloth material with
good sanitary napkins.
●	% of Nanhi Kalis engaged in sports and extracurricular
activities, leading to improvement in physical and mental
health.
●	% of Nanhi Kalis were able to continue their studies
even during COVID- due to support provided by
community associates who maintained regular contact
with parents through instant messages and regular
visits with proper precautions. This ensured continued
learning for Nanhi Kalis during COVID-.
Mahindra Scholarship for UWC Students
Your Company partnered with The Mahindra United World
College, India (MUWCI) to give an opportunity to young female students to avail UWC Global education by studying
at MUWCI. MUWCI has an elaborate selection process which
includes interviews, games, group discussions and selfreflection exercises. Apart from merit, financial need is taken
into consideration for awarding scholarships. In FY -, female students were awarded scholarships.
Stakeholder and beneficiary engagement during the impact
assessment process has highlighted the following outcomes
for projects initiated in FY -:
●	% of students affirmed that the project significantly
boosted their confidence, particularly during uncertain
times.
●	% of participants felt empowered by the project to
pursue further education, demonstrating its success in
motivating and supporting students despite potential
obstacles.
●	The project achieved a % satisfaction rate among
respondents for providing essential financial support,
crucial in removing economic barriers to education and
enabling academic pursuits.
●	Moreover, % of respondents acknowledged that
the skills and knowledge acquired at MUWCI would
significantly shape their future career aspirations.
Mahindra Pride
The Company partnered with K.C. Mahindra Education Trust
and Naandi Foundation to offer skills training courses for
youth across multiple states of the country in FY -,
to make them more employable. The project comprised two
routes of intervention: the Mahindra Pride School and the
Mahindra Pride Classroom. Stakeholder and beneficiary engagement during the impact
assessment process has highlighted the following outcomes
for projects initiated in FY -:
Mahindra Pride School
●	% of respondents felt the program enhanced their
employability, with % positively impacting their career
goals.
●	% of respondents confirmed that they were
currently employed.
●	% of respondents expressed that they felt motivated
and encouraged, and % of respondents shared that
the training team guided them to get employment even
during COVID-.
●	% of respondents praised its practical application,
highlighting the project’s commitment to delivering
industry-relevant knowledge and skills.
●	The shift to a hybrid training model was effective,
with % participating regularly in online training.
This highlights the project’s successful shift during the
pandemic.
●	% of respondents reported increased confidence,
reflecting the project’s role in enhancing personal and
professional lives.
●	% of respondents expressed course content as
relevant.
Mahindra Pride Classroom
●	% of respondents expressed that they feel better
equipped to handle job interviews and are more confident
in communicating in English. The Mahindra Pride School offered days of intensive
skill training in the domains of ITES, automotive, hospitality,
and organised retail. Apart from this, expert trainers also
provided training in spoken English and essential soft skills
to equip students with the requisite skills required in the
workplace. During FY -, , youth were trained
under this intervention with support of the Company. ●	% of respondents directly attributed the Mahindra
Pride Classroom training to helping them secure a job.
Of these, % of respondents secured jobs through the
“Job Utsav” conducted by Mahindra Pride Classroom. In order to scale the outreach of Mahindra Pride School,
The Mahindra Pride Classroom (MPC) collaborated with
Government recognised colleges/ITI/Polytechnic institutions
(where domain skills were already being provided) to offer
- hours skills modules in spoken English, life skills,
aptitude, interview preparedness, group discussion, and
digital literacy. The program was restructured into an online
format as a result of COVID- restrictions. Apart from skills
training, the MPC also helps in job placement. MPC also
offers skills training in new domains like Agri-skilling, Digital
Marketing, New Educator and Coding. During F22, ,,
youth were trained under this intervention with the support
of the Company. ●	% of respondents highlighted that the training was
highly relevant in terms of practical application. ●	% of respondents were satisfied with the training
team’s support, with % feeling motivated and
encouraged. ●	% of respondents shared that the online classes
were interactive. During COVID-, the Mahindra Pride
Classroom project rapidly shifted to online learning,
developing digital content, and enhancing trainer
capabilities for virtual engagement.
●	% of respondents expressed course content as
relevant.
Mahindra World School, Chennai
The Company partnered with Mahindra World Education
Trust, Chennai to address structural issues and safety MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT concerns within the premises of Mahindra World School. This
initiative aimed to elevate safety standards and enhance the
aesthetic appeal of the school. With separate CSR grants
received from the Company in FY - and FY -,
Mahindra World School Education Trust meticulously
executed renovation plans tailored to the specific scope of
work. These efforts resulted in significant enhancements to
the overall safety and functionality of the school, ensuring a
secure environment for students.
Stakeholder and beneficiary engagement during the impact
assessment process has highlighted the following outcomes
for projects initiated in FY - and FY -:
●	This initiative reinforced the safety of the premises and
also ensured that the school environment remained
conducive to learning.
●	The improvements substantially enhanced the safety
and structural integrity of the school infrastructure.
●	The project’s renovation process was based on a rigorous
scientific approach, involving extensive consultations
with multiple stakeholders. This collaborative strategy
ensured that the upgrades were comprehensive and
tailored to the specific needs of the school community.
Mahindra All India Talent Scholarship
The Company partnered with K.C. Mahindra Education Trust to
provide scholarships to students belonging to economically
disadvantaged families who wish to pursue job-oriented
diploma courses at a Government recognised polytechnic
in India. The selection process is based on academic merit
as well as financial need. Preference is given to orphans,
children of single parents, differently abled individuals and
wards of central armed police forces personnel. To adapt
to COVID- challenges the application and the selection
process including document verification was moved online
ensuring the project’s continuous support for students
during the pandemic. In FY -, , students were
supported under this project across states.
Stakeholder and beneficiary engagement during the impact
assessment process has highlighted the following outcomes
for projects initiated in FY -:
●	The project’s effectiveness in reaching diverse groups is
evident from the profile of respondents which include
% belonging to the category of single-parent families,
physically disabled, orphans and wards of central armed
police forces.
●	% of respondents rely on parental assistance, % selffinancing, and % depend on relatives. The scholarship
serves as a crucial tool in reducing financial reliance on
families or external sources.
●	Scholarships play a crucial role in overcoming student
challenges, addressing financial constraints for % of
respondents. ●	Scholarships facilitate continued education, financial
planning, and career attainment with % of respondents
reporting full fee coverage.
●	The scholarship serves as a motivator, boosting academic
performance for % of respondents.
●	The scholarship enhances career prospects by boosting
confidence for % of respondents, aiding college
admissions in higher education for %, and improving
job prospects for %.
●	% of respondents highlighted that their families feel
a sense of pride due to this scholarship.
FD S&CO Scholarship for Education
Your Company partnered with United Way Mumbai to provide
scholarships for supporting the academic journey of two
specific groups: a) girls of farm technicians/tech masters
(classes -) and b) children whose parents are engaged
in the farming community (classes -). The project
recognised the financial and societal barriers these groups
face and sought to provide a pathway through education.
The scholarship criteria focus on providing financial assistance
to children from economically challenged backgrounds.
Each beneficiary received an annual scholarship amount of
Rs. ,.
In FY -, , students were supported under this
project across states, with Maharashtra having the highest
number of beneficiaries, followed by Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat,
Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. Stakeholder and beneficiary
engagement during the impact assessment process has
highlighted the following outcomes for projects initiated in
FY -:
●	% of respondents who received scholarships
belonged to a low-income category, which indicated the
critical importance of the scholarship in supporting the
educational aspirations of children.
●	% of respondents reported increased academic
marks post-scholarship, indicating the positive impact
of scholarship in motivating children to perform well in
academics.
●	% of respondents acknowledged that scholarships
eased financial burdens for their education during
COVID- and also enhanced support for education
among their families and communities.
●	The survey indicates that % of respondents actively
continue their education. The project motivated children
to continue their education and pursue academic success.
●	% of beneficiaries allocated the scholarship funds
for school/college fees, % for various needs such
as school kits, and the rest for purchasing books. The
project effectively supported educational needs in
multiple ways. ●	% of respondents expressed gratitude and
heightened appreciation toward their father’s profession
as a farm technician, as it is the reason for them to
receive this scholarship.
Mahindra Saarthi Abhiyan- Girl Child Scholarship
Mahindra Saarthi Abhiyan Scholarship, initiated by Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited aimed to provide financial assistance
to daughters of commercial vehicle drivers in India.
The scholarship program offered Rs., to female
students pursuing studies from Class to Graduation. In
FY -, the program has benefitted daughters
of truck drivers across India, with a focus on supporting
economically vulnerable families. The project transitioned
to digital platforms during COVID-, ensuring accessibility
and convenience for applicants.
The scholarship covers a significant portion of educational
expenses for the recipients, easing the financial burden
on their families. During FY -, the scholarship
was provided to all eligible candidates across states.
Stakeholder and beneficiary engagement during the impact
assessment process has highlighted the following outcomes
for projects initiated in FY -:
●	% of respondents in the survey stated that the
scholarship eased the financial burden of education for
their families.
●	% of respondents stated that the scholarship
application process was very easy.
●	% of scholarship beneficiaries come from economically
vulnerable backgrounds.
●	% of beneficiaries reported that the scholarship
helped to cover their annual fees completely.
●	% of respondents agreed the scholarship motivated
girl child to improve their academic performance.
●	Change in perception within the trucking community
was observed. During key informant interviews, it
was noted that the parents feel proud because their
daughters got scholarships due to their jobs. This
brought a positive change in how they felt about their
profession.
Women Empowerment with Regenerative AgricultureUP and Punjab
Your Company partnered with Naandi Foundation to enable
women farmers to use regenerative agriculture practices
to improve soil fertility and increase productivity, ensuring
food and nutrition security for their families, along with
enhanced income levels. The strategy was to establish
regenerative agriculture (RA) hubs which served as farmer
resource centres for training women farmers in regenerative
agriculture practices, development of household-based “Good
Food Corners” and production of carbon rich compost. The project spanned across two years (FY - and
FY -) covering , women farmers in Moga
and Tarn Taran (Punjab) and Shravasti (UP). Stakeholder
and beneficiary engagement during the impact assessment
process has highlighted the following outcomes for projects
initiated in FY - and FY -:
●	% of respondents agreed that RA hubs created
awareness about regenerative agriculture and its
techniques.
●	In FY -, % of respondents created “Good
Food Corners” in Punjab and % of the respondents
created “Good Food Corners” in Uttar Pradesh. %
of the farmers from FY23 (Punjab and Uttar Pradesh)
created “Good Food Corners” and are continuing to grow
vegetables.
●	% of respondents who created “Good Food Corners”
mentioned that they gained a sense of ownership and
recognition through managing “Good Food Corners” in
both project states.
●	In Punjab project areas, % (FY -) of
respondents and % (FY -) of respondents
reported monthly savings of Rs. ,-Rs. ,, due to
reduced input costs per month.
●	In UP project areas, % (FY -) of respondents
and % (FY -) of respondents reported a saving
of Rs. , - Rs. , due to reduced input costs per
month.
●	Focus group discussions revealed that adopting
regenerative practices, particularly mixed cropping, led
to higher yields, fresher vegetables for - days, larger
sizes, and quicker cooking times, enhancing yield and
income.
Women Empowerment with Regenerative AgricultureMaharashtra
Your Company partnered with Naandi Foundation to enable
women farmers to use regenerative agriculture practices
to improve soil fertility and increase productivity, ensuring
food and nutrition security for their families, along with
enhanced income levels. The strategy was to establish
regenerative agriculture (RA) hubs which served as farmer
resource centres for training women farmers in regenerative
agriculture practices, development of household-based “Good
Food Corners” and production of carbon rich compost.
In FY -, the project covered , women farmers
in Wardha (Maharashtra). Stakeholder and beneficiary
engagement during the impact assessment process has
highlighted the following outcomes for projects initiated in
FY -:
●	% of respondents expressed that exposure to the
training helped them to learn and adopt regenerative
agricultural practices in their “Good Food Corners”. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT ●	% of respondents mentioned that they created “Good
Food Corners”. ●	% of respondents expressed increased confidence
and financial independence. ●	.% of respondents mentioned that their monthly
savings ranged between Rs. - Rs. , after
adopting regenerative agricultural practices. ●	% of respondents stated that they had observed a
positive change in soil management. ●	% of respondents reported that the training
significantly increased their confidence. Male members
of the family also acknowledged that the women in their
family gained knowledge from this training and male
family members have now started availing of their input
in agricultural practices. The Women’s Initiative for Synergistic Empowerment (WISE)
Project, supported by the Company and implemented by
Chaitanya, aimed to provide entrepreneurship empowerment
covering , women. The project focused on enterprise
promotion, digital financial literacy, and gender training
to enhance women’s livelihoods. The project also created
economic empowerment hubs to support women
entrepreneurs. This comprehensive effort equipped women
with entrepreneurial skills, paving the way for their financial
independence and empowerment. ●	In a mixed-group discussion, notable health benefits
associated with consuming produce grown through
regenerative practices were highlighted.
Krishi Mitr – Empowerment of women farmers
The Company partnered with PRADAN to work towards
effectively breaking the vicious cycle of low production and
poor market access for small landholding women farmers.
The project strategised to form seven women-led Farmer
Producer Companies (FPCs) along with establishing five poly
nursery units, developing two custom hiring centres, providing
infrastructural support for processing units, implementing
three solar lift irrigation units, establishing three Bio input
resource centres, and supporting farmers through vaccine
cold chain infrastructure. Additionally, the project provided
input and marketing support and conducted training and
capacity-building sessions for , women farmers.
During FY -, the project covered Dindori, Shahdol
and Singrauli districts in Madhya Pradesh, and Araria and
Kishanganj districts in Bihar. Stakeholder and beneficiary
engagement during the impact assessment process has
highlighted the following outcomes for projects initiated in
FY -:
●	% of respondents reported a decrease in pest
attacks after the adoption of bio inputs. % have
access to organic input at low cost, % of respondents
informed better yield in crops.
●	% of respondents shared that poly nursery units
ensure easy access to affordable and good quality
seedlings, which leads to better crop yield.
●	Study findings indicate that post-intervention, accurate
weighing machines and transparent pricing helped
farmers get fair value for their produce.
●	Women shareholders in Farmer Producer Companies
(FPCs) earn an additional Rs. to Rs. per quintal
for their produce.
●	Study findings indicate that the interventions have
increased their income by approximately Rs. , to
Rs. , from multiple crop cycles.
●	The project enhanced financial returns by increasing the
value of shares in Farmer Producer Companies (FPCs)
and improving profitability from organic produce. Women’s Initiative for Synergistic Empowerment (WISE) During FY -, the project was conducted in districts of Maharashtra, including Pune, Ahmednagar,
Satara, Kolhapur, and Palghar. Stakeholder and beneficiary
engagement during the impact assessment process has
highlighted the following outcomes for projects initiated in
FY -:
●	% of respondents received training in enterprise
awareness, digital literacy, and gender training, leading
to improved financial skills.
●	% of respondents reported an increase in savings
after the training highlighting the financial impact of the
project. Out of these, % reported monthly savings
in a range of Rs. , – Rs. , and remaining
respondents reported saving up to Rs. ,.
●	The study observed that post the project, % of
respondents were running their own enterprises
independently,
with
%
becoming
first-time
entrepreneurs in their families.
●	% of respondents reported increased confidence in
business activities.
●	% of respondents felt empowered, leading to
increased respect and support from their families,
ultimately uplifting women in their locality.
●	% of respondents felt more confident in Internet
banking and social media marketing after the training.
GREEN GUARDIAN (SWARAJ) – Conservation of Water
Resources
Your Company partnered with Sarv Mangal Gramin Vikas
Sansthan (SMGVS) to undertake water conservation and
livelihood enhancement project through promotion of roof
rainwater harvesting structures in Jaipur, Nagaur, Pali, and
Sikar districts of Rajasthan and rejuvenation of traditional
water bodies in Ajmer (Rajasthan) in FY -. This project
had two components:
●	Roof Rainwater Harvesting in schools—The intervention
focussed on roof rainwater harvesting in selected schools
along with water storage for drinking purposes leading
to addressing water scarcity issues within selected
school premises of the districts of Rajasthan. ●	Rejuvenation of Traditional Water Bodies (Ponds/Tanks)This intervention focussed on rejuvenation of existing
water bodies like ponds, enabling better land and
water resources governance by villagers, and increasing
community participation in water management in Ajmer
district of Rajasthan.
Stakeholder and beneficiary engagement during the impact
assessment process has highlighted the following outcomes
for projects initiated in FY -:
Roof Rainwater Harvesting in Schools
●	% of school student respondents highlighted the
importance of roof rainwater harvesting and conservation
for drinking purposes.
●	It was observed that the schools followed hygiene
norms for potable drinking water by proper maintenance
of roof rainwater storage tank, thereby preventing iron
bacterial growth.
Rejuvenation of Traditional Water Bodies
●	, individuals benefitted from renovation of ponds.
●	Pond renovation led to a shift from rainfed to diversified
and irrigated agriculture, resulting in a % increase
in crop yield and income over three seasons in study
surveyed villages.
●	% of respondents mentioned that the project
resulted in improved water availability status for
irrigation and increased agricultural production due to
pond renovation.
●	The study findings suggested that the project also
ensured drinking water for approximately ,-,
livestock, and with the pond water available year-round,
the panchayat could supply water to the entire village.
●	Intervention effectively converted fallow land into
cultivatable areas for griha vartika cultivation.
●	The establishment of the Village Development Committee
(VDC) fostered leadership by engaging VDC members
in monitoring and supervisory tasks and promoted
community involvement in the project.
Integrated Village Development- Alwar
Your Company partnered with Sarv Mangal Gramin Vikas
Sansthan (SMGVS) to implement the Integrated Village
Development Project in the Alwar district of Rajasthan in
FY -. This project aimed to foster sustainable village
development and enhance livelihoods by conserving and restoring natural resources. Key interventions included water
harvesting, renovation of earthen ponds, introduction of
micro-irrigation systems, roof rainwater tanks for households
and schools, and development of various agricultural and
livestock enterprises such as goat rearing and poultry farms.
These initiatives are designed to improve water availability
and agricultural productivity, supporting economic growth
and environmental sustainability.
Stakeholder and beneficiary engagement during the impact
assessment process has highlighted the following outcomes
for projects initiated in FY -:
●	% of respondents reported increased water levels.
The average water level in wells across villages
increased by to feet, showcasing the effectiveness
of the interventions.
●	There has been an increase in irrigated areas by %,
along with a % rise in agricultural income.
●	% of women experienced easier access to drinking
water.
●	Study findings indicate that the project strengthened
village-level community institutions in Todi, Jhalara,
Anantapura, Veerpur, and Nathalwada, increasing
collective action and improving women’s participation.
Even after the project’s completion, the community
continued to own the program, recognising its impact.
●	% of respondents mentioned that farm bunds acted
as barriers, preventing soil erosion, and contributing to
sustainable agriculture.
●	% of respondents perceived a higher return in the
range of % to % from crops sown in bunded fields.
●	% of beneficiaries reported an average income
increase of Rs. , to Rs. , per family due to
interventions, including farm bunding techniques and
livestock rearing.
●	The project significantly supported poultry and goat
rearing, leading to reduced mortality rates and increased
production. Women beneficiaries reported a substantial
boost in monthly income, reaching up to Rs. ,,
making these ventures their primary income sources.
●	This project supported livestock rearing activities by
organizing treatment and vaccination camps, facilitating
breed improvement, and installing water troughs for
animal drinking water. These efforts reduced treatment
costs, improved milk, and meat production, and enhanced
overall animal health. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT ANNEXURE VII
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
SECTION ()(m) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, READ
WITH RULE () OF THE COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES, IS FORMING PART OF THE BOARD´S REPORT FOR
THE FINANCIAL YEAR - (A) Conservation of Energy 
Your Company is committed to sustainable business
practices by contributing to environment protection
and considers energy conservation as one of the strong
pillars of preserving natural resources. This also helps
the Company in reducing carbon footprint across all
its operations and improves the bottom-line under its
‘Mission Sustainability’. Your Company is the first Indian signatory to EP100
(Energy Productivity %) by with base year
, a program promoted by ‘Climate Group’. Further,
your Company has committed to becoming Carbon
Neutral by . Your Company is also committed for
Science Based Target (SBT) to De-carbonize its growth
and thus contributing to keep global temperature rise
well below degrees Celsius as per Paris Accord . 
Your Company has a robust roadmap for achieving
targets for improving energy efficiency and adoption of
renewable energy. Your Company continues to invest
in various energy efficiency programs abiding by its
commitment towards internal carbon price of USD per ton of carbon emitted. 
Your Company has taken various initiatives as listed
below, for energy conservation:
●	Programs for improving energy efficiency and
energy productivity across all operations. ●	Eco efficiency in supply chain.
●	Creating awareness and promote sustainability
amongst stakeholders.
i.	The steps taken or impact on conservation of
energy
●	Replacement of conventional air circulators with
BLDC technology air circulators.
●	Improving energy efficiency through
interlockings, automations and digitization. VFD’s, ●	Replacement of old motors with premium efficiency
IE3 motors.
●	Installation of auto shut off valves for compressed
air.
●	Waste heat recovery from air compressors and paint
shops.
●	Smart cooling technology to enhance the chiller
performance and life. 
Your Company believes in employee engagement for
driving positive change towards this goal and has taken
multiple initiatives. Select few initiatives are listed below:
●	National energy conservation week celebration at
all plants during 14th to 20th December.
●	Sustainability month celebration at all plants (June
month).
●	Organizing
employees. annual Sustainability summit for ●	Adoption of Green energy for manufacturing
operations. ●	Capability building programs on Energy and
Sustainability for employees and Supplier partners.
Organizing various competitions to engage
employees like ECO warrior, posters, slogans,
suggestions and quiz. ●	Converting existing Facilities into Green buildings
and factories. ●	Sustainability awareness for family members of
Employees. ●	Rain water harvesting, reduce usage, reuse and
recycle water. ●	Enhance learning through digital platforms like E
learning, Webinars. ●	Thrust on zero waste to land fill and promote
circular economy. ●	Awareness creation through e-mailers, wall papers,
etc. ●	Thrust on increasing share of renewable energy. ii.	The steps taken by the Company for utilising
alternate sources of energy 
For the year under review, your Company has
sourced . MWp Solar power and . MW
Wind power contributing to % of total power
consumption which mitigates ,, tons of CO2. Your Company has set a target to increase the share
of renewable energy to around % by Financial
Year .
iii.	The capital investment on energy conservation
equipments 
For the year under review, your Company
implemented various projects towards Energy
Conservation, to the tune of Rs. . crores. These projects include Energy efficient motors,
EC blower, BLDC air circulators, compressor heat
recovery, energy efficient pumps, VFD’s and many
more energy conservation initiatives. (B) Technology Absorption
(i) The efforts made towards technology absorption: 
Your Company is committed towards technology
driven innovation and inculcating an innovation
driven culture within the organisation. During the year under review, your Company continued
to work on advanced technologies, upgradation of
existing technology and capability development in
the critical areas for current and future growth. The Automotive Sector is committed to expand its
vision on multiple emerging technologies, including
born electric vehicles, battery technologies, motors
for electric vehicles, active safety systems, advanced
electronics, software defined vehicles, technologies
for light-weighting, enhanced vehicle dynamics and
connected vehicles. 
In Farm Equipment Sector, technology areas
such as best in class mileage, emission reduction
technologies, reduced noise and vibration,
high precision hydraulics, combine harvesters,
transmission efficiency improvement, light weight
tractors, CNG powered tractor, and electric tractor
were given special emphasis. This would help in making the Company’s products
retain their competitive edge in the market in the
coming years. 
Your Company continues to invest in technology
development as well as protection through patents.
For the year under review, your Company filed a
total of patent applications. Cumulatively, your
Company has filed , patent applications so
far. The Company’s total granted patent portfolio
stands at , across multiple geographies and
has significantly grown over last few years. Number of Patents Granted - Cumulave Number of Granted Patents Upto F18 F19 F21 F20 F22 F23 F24 Fiscal Years Technical Capability Building:
Your Company has been continuously investing in reskilling
its engineers in emerging technology areas of electric,
connected, software defined vehicle technologies, smart
agricultural vehicles, precision farming, etc. The product
design engineers are also trained in technologies like Data
Science, AI, IoT, Mechatronics, Design Thinking, etc., and are
encouraged to leverage the power of these technologies
in new product development.
(ii)	The benefits derived like product improvement,
cost reduction, product development or import
substitution: The efforts taken by your Company towards
technology development and absorption help deliver
competitive advantage and market leadership
through the launch of customer centric products
and variants, introduction of new features and
improvement of product performance. 
Some examples of results delivered in the year
- are: Automotive Sector ●	Showcased the new global Pik Up concept
based on the Tough and Versatile New Gen
Ladder Frame platform which is engineered to MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT deliver performance, safety, utility, and robust
capability, offering an authentic lifestyle pickup
for limitless exploration. ●	Showcased the new Thar E concept, an
electric evolution of the legendary off-roader.
The Thar E is one-of-a-kind modular construction
and adaptable components which positions it
as a standout in the electric SUV field. This
robust design philosophy aligns with the SUV’s
timeless appeal and confident presence, suited
for any terrain.
●	Launch of Bolero Neo+ Ambulance, built to
fully comply with AIS: (Part ) norms that
govern the Type B Ambulance segment, the
Neo+ stands out for its superior OEM-level of
build quality coupled with a versatility that will
appeal to buyers in big cities, smaller towns,
and upcountry locations. The Neo+ Ambulance
comes with the powerful .-litre mHawk
engine paired with a -speed gearbox in a rearwheel-drive configuration and delivers a power
output of HP and peak torque of Nm,
assuring rapid response times in emergencies.
●	Launch of new Supro Profit Truck Excel series,
available in both Diesel and CNG Duo variants.
The new SCV is equipped with a powerful
. kW Direct Injection Diesel Engine and
. kW Positive Ignition CNG Engine BS6
RDE-compliant engine, providing Nm and Nm torque respectively. The vehicle features
R13 tyres and boasts mm of ground
clearance, ensuring higher performance and
pickup even with a full load. ranging from .2kW/200Nm to .7kW/220Nm,
with payload capacities spanning from .3t
to 2t and a cargo bed length of up to mm. Packed with features such as CMVRcertified D+ seating, height-adjustable driver
seats, turn-safe lamps, redesigned interiors and
improved iMAXX technology with + features
for connectivity. ●	Launch of New Variants of Bolero MaXX Pik-Up
range powered by Mahindra’s advanced m2Di
engine offering diesel and CNG options, boasts a
disruptive design with power and torque nodes ●	Launch of Swaraj Wheel Harvester with
Smart E Technology: Live Machine Location for
Owners (Remote Access from the Harvester). ●	Launch of a new Compact Light Weight
tractor range ‘Swaraj Target’ with best in class
technology features like Spray Saver Switch,
Max Cool Radiator, Sync-Shift Transmission, Wet
IPTO Clutch, Engine Key Stop, Balanced Power
Steering, Clear and Powerful Headlamps, Stylish
Digital Cluster, Fully Sealed 4WD Portal Axle
and Dual PTO. (iii)	In case of imported technology (imported during the last three years reckoned from the beginning of the
financial year):
Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No. Year of
Import Status of Technology
Absorption Farm Equipment Sector . DLC coated Piston Pin technology Technology Absorbed . Hollow cam shaft Gasoline engines Technology Absorbed . Hollow sodium cooled exhaust Valve technology in Gasoline Technology Absorbed . bar GDI System in Gasoline engines Technology Absorbed . Fully variable displacement oil pump in diesel Technology Absorbed . Map controlled Piston cooling jet Technology Absorbed . Miller + variable geometry gasoline turbine Technology Absorbed . Adaptive cruise control Technology Absorbed . Automatic transmission with Neutral controlled function Technology Absorbed . Gasoline Particulate filter Technology Absorbed . Potato Planter Electric Vibrator Technology Absorbed . Mass Balancer Shaft for Cylinder Engine Technology Absorbed . Smart Combine Harvester Technology Absorbed . High Ground Clearance Tractor Technology Absorbed . Dual Fuel CNG Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Electronic Hydrostatic Transmission (eHST) for tractors Technology Absorbed . Electronic Power Shuttle (ePST) for tractors @ In the process of Absorption . Electronic Depth & Draft Control (EDDC) for tractors Technology Absorbed . Engine start/Go Home/Lead me Home using BLE for tractors Technology Absorbed . Multi Drive Mode Engine for tractors Technology Absorbed . Auto Implement lifting & PTO stop for tractor safety Technology Absorbed . Selective Auto Braking while turning of tractors Technology Absorbed . Global Hydraulics Technology Absorbed . Electric Tractor @ In the process of Absorption ●	Launch of Jeeto strong, in both Diesel and CNG
Duo variants, equipped with improved payload
and redefined ride and handling.
●	Launch of ‘Scorpio-N Z8 Select’ variant with key
premium features like Adrenox Connect, Builtin Alexa, signature dual barrel LED headlamps,
LED Projector Foglamps and Sting like LED
DRLs, R17 Diamond cut Alloy wheels, rich
coffee-black leatherette interiors. ●	Advanced vehicle features like connected
car features, wireless charging, multi-terrain
mode changes, command seating, Intelligent
cockpit technology, driver drowsiness detection,
electronic stability control are implemented in
the SUVs. enhanced comfort with side shift, IPTO, and
easy hitch features, stylish single-piece bonnet
with digital cluster, LED tail lamps, and daylight
running options and best-in-segment standard
warranty of years or hours. ●	Launched OJA series of light weight tractors
under platforms, loaded with category first
technology features, based on Three Technology
Packs – MYOJA (Intelligence Pack), PROJA
(Productivity Pack) and ROBOJA (Automation
Pack). With its best-in-class power-to-weight
ratio, equipped with best-in-class engine
technologies, featuring higher back-up torque,
the OJA range ensures superior performance
in terms of fuel economy and lugging abilities.
Advanced hydraulics deliver precision in every
farm application. Additionally, industry first
automation controls across the OJA range
enhances the overall precision and performance
of the platform.
●	Unveiled its first CNG mono fuel tractor on its
Yuvo tractor platform, four tanks with a capacity
of litres each, or KG of gas on-board, filled
at -bar pressure. Notably eco-friendly, the
CNG tractor significantly reduces emissions by
nearly % compared to diesel tractors. Lower
engine vibrations contribute to decreased
noise levels, measuring .5db lower than diesel
tractors.
●	Launch of Swaraj FE, FE tractors with
Higher CC and higher torque engines, enhanced
hydraulic lift capacity, best-in-segment -speed
PTO to seamlessly handle heavy and modern
farm implements, more reliable engine with a
-hour service interval, a more reliable front
axle, enhanced productivity with the option of
multispeed + transmission IPTO and 4WD, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No. Year of
Import Status of Technology
Absorption Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No. Year of
Import Status of Technology
Absorption . Intelligent energy management @ In the process of Absorption . Remote Selective Catalytic Reduction for off-road engines Technology Absorbed . Passive SCR for diesel engines for BS6. @ In the process of Absorption . TREM-V for Domestic Tractors @ In the process of Absorption . NOx sensor application for BS6. Technology Absorbed . BS-V (CEV) for Domestic construction equipment vehicles @ In the process of Absorption . PN sensor application for BS6. Technology Absorbed . Light weight Piston & Connecting rod for Off-road engines @ In the process of Absorption . High Voltage LFP battery cell application @ In the process of Absorption . Low friction off-road engines @ In the process of Absorption . in E drive system application for BEV @ In the process of Absorption . Level Tractor Automation for driver assistant - straight line and
headland turn @ In the process of Absorption . High power onboard charger application for Electric vehicles @ In the process of Absorption . ASIC rated BMS application in HV battery packs Technology Absorbed . Aluminum extrusion battery pack application in Electric vehicles @ In the process of Absorption . Cell to Pack battery pack technology @ In the process of Absorption . Interior Illumination @ In the process of Absorption . Cell supervisor circuit in HV battery Technology Absorbed . Emotion recognition @ In the process of Absorption . Rack-assist steering with Variable Gear Ratio (VGR) technology Technology Absorbed . Digital Key @ In the process of Absorption . i-Link front suspension technology Technology Absorbed . -link rear suspension technology Technology Absorbed . Smart cabin personalization @ In the process of Absorption . Mars Roof technology @ In the process of Absorption . Advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) L2+ @ In the process of Absorption . Fixed glass roof technology @ In the process of Absorption . Prognostics @ In the process of Absorption . Ambient lightening @ In the process of Absorption . Central integrated module @ In the process of Absorption . Next generation cockpit with edge to edge display @ In the process of Absorption . V2X connectivity Technology Absorbed . Semi-active suspension @ In the process of Absorption . Regional language voice engine Technology Absorbed . Integrated Electronic Brake system @ In the process of Absorption . Smart Surface @ In the process of Absorption . Torque Vectoring @ In the process of Absorption . Split type HVAC system @ In the process of Absorption . Wellness seat (ventilated/massager) Technology Absorbed . Active Grill Shutter @ In the process of Absorption . Thermal control glass @ In the process of Absorption . Heat-pump technology @ In the process of Absorption . Active grill shutter @ In the process of Absorption . Tri-zone cooling technology @ In the process of Absorption . Clean Cabin @ In the process of Absorption . PM sensor with cabin air quality Index display @ In the process of Absorption . Semi Dampening Control @ In the process of Absorption . Driver-Only HVAC cooling mode @ In the process of Absorption . Integrated Dynamic Brake @ In the process of Absorption . Auto Defog @ In the process of Absorption . Active noise Cancellation @ In the process of Absorption . High-energy low-friction check-arm @ In the process of Absorption . Pillar mounted outer door handle @ In the process of Absorption . Signature sound @ In the process of Absorption . Aluminum Energy Absorbers in BIW @ In the process of Absorption . Electronic 4WD Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Plastic Energy Absorbers for light weighting @ In the process of Absorption . Aluminum cylinder head for Tractor Engines Technology Absorbed . Semi-hidden waist seal @ In the process of Absorption . EGR cooler module for Tractor Engines Technology Absorbed . Hybrid doors and glass run seal @ In the process of Absorption . Passive Diesel Particulate Filter for off-road engines Technology Absorbed . Smart wiper @ In the process of Absorption . Active Diesel Particulate Filter for off-road engines Technology Absorbed . AR-HUD windshield with wedge PVB and press bending @ In the process of Absorption . Tractor Engines for Stage V emission norms Technology Absorbed . Laminated acoustic side glass @ In the process of Absorption . Acoustic tail glass @ In the process of Absorption MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No. Year of
Import Status of Technology
Absorption Sr. Details of Technology Imported
No. Year of
Import Status of Technology
Absorption . Strap-type Inner Door Handle @ In the process of Absorption . Multi Step Regenerative Braking @ In the process of Absorption . Illuminated logo @ In the process of Absorption . Single Pedal Drive @ In the process of Absorption . Power operated lift-gate with hands-free access @ In the process of Absorption . Compact and foldable sun visor @ In the process of Absorption . Printed GPS Antenna (on Glass) @ In the process of Absorption . Smart Haptic Seats (Massager & additional features) @ In the process of Absorption . Connected LED Tail-Lamps @ In the process of Absorption . Lounge Seats for Staycation @ In the process of Absorption . Dual Layered Alloy Wheels @ In the process of Absorption . Hybrid Cross Car Beam (Mg Steel) for light weighting @ In the process of Absorption . LFP Blade cell for High voltage Battery application @ In the process of Absorption . CAP sense switches @ In the process of Absorption . Aluminium Battery frame with Colt metal transfer welding technology @ In the process of Absorption . Asymmetric tires with high cornering stiffness @ In the process of Absorption . Battery pack with Lean Module technology @ In the process of Absorption . Low rolling resistance tires @ In the process of Absorption . Battery disconnect unit with Smart fuse (Active + Passive Function) @ In the process of Absorption . Low friction wheel bearing @ In the process of Absorption . Aluminium Stamping covers for Battery Application @ In the process of Absorption . Tires with foam for low noise @ In the process of Absorption . Motor with U- PIN wire technology @ In the process of Absorption . Styled steel wheel rim @ In the process of Absorption . Alloy wheel with flow forming @ In the process of Absorption . Aluminium Cooling plate with Brazing technology @ In the process of Absorption . Hydro-bush for NVH and ride improvement @ In the process of Absorption . Open Bleed Technology @ In the process of Absorption . Hydraulic Compression Stopper @ In the process of Absorption . Pillar to Pillar -Screen Display & HMI @ In the process of Absorption . OTA Updates - Software Defined Vehicle @ In the process of Absorption . OTT Entertainment Apps - Software Defined Vehicle @ In the process of Absorption . DOMS - Software Defined Vehicle @ In the process of Absorption . Ambient Lighting @ In the process of Absorption . Animation and Start up Sequencing @ In the process of Absorption . Ice Cube Theme in Head lamp @ In the process of Absorption . Electric Steering system for Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Electric Point Linkage for Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Thermal system for Electric Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Electric Power Train for Electric Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Connected application for Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Remote Authentication for Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Remote Diagnostics for Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Comprehensive Performance Tracking for Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Remote Operations – Cabin Heating & Cooling for Tractor @ In the process of Absorption . Welcome Carpet Lighting @ In the process of Absorption . Anti Whiplash Headrest @ In the process of Absorption . Anti Submarining integrated in Seats @ In the process of Absorption @ Areas where Technology not fully absorbed, reasons thereof: All imported technologies ‘In the process of Absorption’ would be absorbed as per the respective Technology
Absorption Schedule.
(iv) The expenditure incurred on Research and Development: The Company spent Rs. ,. crores (including Rs. ,. crores on Capital Expenditure) for Research &
Development work during the year, which was approximately % of the total turnover. (C) Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
Foreign Exchange earnings and outgo during the year under review are as follows:
(Rs. in crores)
Total Foreign Exchange Earned and Outgo For the Financial Year
ended 31st March, For the Financial Year
ended 31st March, Foreign Currency Earnings ,. ,. Foreign Exchange Outgo ,. ,. For and on behalf of the Board
ANAND G. MAHINDRA
Chairman
DIN: Mumbai, May, th MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT ANNEXURE VIII Sr. Name of the Policy
No. POLICIES
Your Company is committed to adhere to the highest possible standards of ethical, moral and legal business conduct. Considering
this, your Company has formulated certain policies, inter alia, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, (“the Act”), SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, (“Listing Regulations”), SEBI (Prohibition of
Insider Trading) Regulations, and SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, . The policies
as mentioned below are available on the Company’s website and can be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. These policies are reviewed periodically and are updated
as and when needed. During the year, the Company had revised and adopted some of its Policies in order to align the same
with recent changes in Corporate Laws. Brief description . The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Act and Subsequent to the year end, various
Listing Regulations is implemented through the Committees under this Policy have been
Whistle-blower Policy to provide for adequate re-constituted.
safeguards against victimization of persons who
use such mechanism and make provision for
direct access to the Chairperson of the Audit
Committee. . Whistle-blower Policy Code of Conduct Summary of key changes made to the
Policies during the year The Board of your Company has laid down two Subsequent to the year end, the clauses on
separate Codes of Conduct, one for all the Conflict of Interest, Intellectual Property and
Board Members and the other for Employees Trademark were amended to make it stricter.
of the Company. This Code is the central policy
document, outlining the requirements that the There has been no change to the Code of
employees working for and with the Company Conduct for Board Members.
must comply with, regardless of their location. . Dividend Distribution Policy . Code
of
Practices
and This Code has been formulated to ensure prompt, The Policy has been amended to inter alia
Procedures for Fair Disclosure timely and adequate disclosure of Unpublished align with the provisions under the Listing
of Unpublished Price Sensitive Price Sensitive Information (“UPSI”) which, Regulations by incorporating clauses
Information
inter alia, includes policy for Determination of pertaining to mandatory verification
“Legitimate Purposes”.
of market rumours in the Code of Fair
Disclosure of the Company. . Policy for determination
Materiality for disclosure
Event or Information . The Dividend Distribution Policy as per There has been no change to this policy.
Regulation 43A of the Listing Regulations is
attached as Annexure I to the Board’s Report
and forms part of this Annual Report. of This policy requires the Company to make The Policy and Indicative Guidelines have
of disclosure of events or information which are been amended to inter alia align with the
material to the Company as per the requirements provisions under the Listing Regulations.
of Regulation of the Listing Regulations. Policy for determining Material The policy is used to identify material subsidiaries There has been no change to this policy.
Subsidiaries
of the Company and to provide a governance
framework for such material subsidiaries. Summary of key changes made to the
Policies during the year . Policy on Materiality of and The policy has been framed in order to regulate The Policy has been amended to inter alia align
Dealing with Related Party all Related Party Transactions of the Company. with the provisions under Listing Regulations
Transactions
which were applicable with effect from 1st April,
. . Policy
on
Appointment This policy includes the criteria for determining The Policy has been amended to inter alia
of
Directors
and
Senior qualifications,
positive
attributes
and align with the amendment to the Listing
Management and succession independence of a Director, identification of Regulations including definition of ‘Senior
planning for orderly succession persons who are qualified to become Directors Management’.
to the Board and the Senior and who may be appointed in the Senior
Management
Management Team in accordance with the
criteria laid down in the said Policy, succession
planning for Directors and Senior Management,
and policy statement for Talent Management
framework of the Company. . Policy for remuneration of This policy sets out the approach of the Company There has been no change to this policy.
the Directors, Key Managerial towards the Compensation of Directors, Key
Personnel and other employees Managerial Personnel and other employees in
the Company. . Corporate Social Responsibility The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is The CSR Policy of the Company was
Policy
aimed, inter alia, at promoting a unified and amended to include in Annexure- of the
strategic approach to CSR across the Company CSR Policy, the CSR Projects undertaken by
by incorporating under one “Rise for Good” the Company in the Financial Year -.
umbrella the diverse range of its philanthropic
giving, identifying select constituencies and
causes to work with, thereby ensuring a high
social impact. . Archival Policy . Business
Responsibility
Sustainability Policy . Safety, Occupational Health and The vision of the policy is to sustain zero incident, There has been no change to this policy.
Environment Policy
zero occupational health hazard and pollution
free working environmental organization. . Policy on Prevention of Sexual The policy on Sexual Harassment is for There has been no change to this policy.
Harassment
Redressal of complaints received regarding
sexual harassment and compliance of other
provisions as per the Sexual Harassment of
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, . The Company in its
good governance has extended the same to
male employees also. A brief description about the Key Policies adopted by the Company is as under:
Sr. Name of the Policy
No. Brief description As per the policy, the events or information There has been no change to this policy.
which has been disclosed by the Company to
the Stock Exchanges pursuant to Regulation of the Listing Regulations shall be hosted
on the website of the Company for a period of years from the date of hosting.
& The objective of this policy is to ensure a unified The Policy was amended in order to align
and common approach to the dimensions it with the new principles in the National
of Business Responsibility across M&M and Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct
Group companies, act as a strategic driver that (“NGRBC”), and Listing Regulations.
will help all Group Companies respond to the
complexities and challenges that keep emerging
and be abreast with changes in regulations. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - B OA R D ’ S
R E P O RT Sr. Name of the Policy
No.
. . . Brief description Summary of key changes made to the
Policies during the year Requirements) Regulations, Loans and advances in nature of loans to Subsidiaries: (Net of Provisions) Investor
Policy Redressal The Policy aims to promote and build prompt The Escalation Matrix for Investor
Investor Grievance Redressal Mechanism and Grievances forming part of the Policy has
investor friendly relations.
been updated during the year under review. Policy on Gifts & Entertainment The Policy lays down the guidelines for The Policy was amended with a view to
acceptance of gifts and entertainment by include a clause on offering or accepting
employees of the Company. Permitted deviations invitation to sporting, cultural or other
& processes are laid down through this Policy. events which Mahindra organises / sponsors
or to which Mahindra has access, with prior
approval of the relevant Group Executive
Board (GEB) member and a clause on
combining a colleague’s social event with
business travel.
Subsequent to the year end, the Policy was
further amended vis-à-vis value of Gifts. . Particulars of loans/advances, etc. pursuant to Para A of Schedule V of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption While the basic tenets of anti-bribery and There has been no change to this policy.
(ABAC) Policy
anti-corruption policy are enshrined in the
Code of Conduct of the Company, this Policy
comprehensively captures the Company’s
approach towards bribery and corruption in
detail.
Grievance Risk Management Policy The Risk Management Policy, inter alia, includes The Directors of your Company approved
identification of risks, including cyber security amendments to this Policy making it
and related risks and also those which in the simpler and encompassing entire process
opinion of the Board may threaten the existence of identification of Risks, Mitigation, Owners,
of the Company.
etc. (Rs. in crores)
Name of the Company Balances as on
31st March, Maximum
outstanding
during the year Mahindra Susten Private Limited – . Classic Legends Private Limited@ . . Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited . . ,. ,. Mahindra Defence Systems Limited . . Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited . . Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited . . NBS International Limited . . Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (Promoter & Director of the Company) and Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (Director of the Company) are also Directors of Classic Legends Private
Limited but they do not have any other concern or interest. @	 Loans and advances in nature of loans to Associates/Joint Venture:
(Rs. in crores)
Name of the Company Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited (Formerly known as Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited) Balances as on
31st March, Maximum
outstanding
during the year – . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited ('M&M') is the flagship company of the
Mahindra Group, which consists of diverse business interests across
the globe. INDUSTRY STRUCTURE,
OVERVIEW AND TRENDS At Mahindra, we constantly strive to create products and
technology-led services that enable our customers and
stakeholders to Rise. By focussing on customer requirement,
delivering accessible technology, innovating and enhancing people
capabilities, we continue to drive growth in the domestic market
while pursuing global expansion. AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY In the Financial Year -, your Company sold ,, vehicles
(a growth of .% over the previous year) and ,, tractors
(includes domestic sales and exports of Mahindra, Swaraj and
Trakstar Brands, a de-growth of .% over the previous year). This
represents the highest combined sales of vehicles and tractors in
any single year by the Company. .% DOMESTIC SALES & EXPORTS The fastest
growing segment
worldwide was
that of Electric
Vehicles (EVs)
which grew at %
CAGR over the last
ﬁve years.
Annual global EV
sales stand at billion which is
.% of total PV
sales for CY . ,, ,, VEHICLES TRACTORS (Source: OICA - Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs d 'Automobiles) The long-term growth outlook for the Indian Auto Industry is positive,
driven by robust economic growth outlook, focused Government
policies with vision for , Government's focus on road and
infrastructure development, increasing income levels, current low
levels of vehicle penetration, rapid urbanisation and a large, young
and aspiring population. GLOBAL SALES* .% In Calendar Year (CY) , worldwide sales of Passenger Cars and
Commercial Vehicles increased to . million, a growth of .%
over the CY2022 sales of . million. Global Passenger Car sales
and Commercial Vehicles sales reported a growth of .% and
.% respectively. India has achieved 3rd rank in passenger vehicle
segment by volume after China and United States of America. ,, ,, VEHICLES TRACTORS *Includes Domestic Sales, Exports along with subsidiaries The Automotive and Farm Sectors, along with their subsidiaries,
associate companies and joint ventures, achieved global sales of
. million vehicles and tractors (,, vehicles and ,,
tractors), a growth of % over the previous year. While the long-term outlook for the Indian Auto Industry is promising,
when compared with FY --Pre Covid levels, the industry has
reached % in commercial vehicles and % in three wheelers
while two wheeler industry is still down by %. Passenger Vehicles
industry which had already recovered to pre-COVID levels last year,
crossed . million vehicles in FY24. Globally the Indian passenger
vehicle market has climbed to 3rd
position in behind China
and the USA. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Segment FY
- FY
- CAGR
F19-F24 PV (Domestic Sales) ,, ,, .% CV (Domestic Sales) ,, ,, -.% 3W (Domestic Sales) ,, ,, -.% 2W (Domestic Sales) ,,, ,,, -.% The shortage of semiconductors post-COVID- was eased with
normalised global supply last year, while the increase in demand was
influenced by higher disposable income, credit availability, new
launches and minor impact due to regulations.
The Indian auto industry recognizes the importance of reducing
dependence on imported oil, enhancing road safety and most
importantly, ensuring clean air. Over the years, the industry has made
significant investments in indigenisation of technologies in the
conventional vehicles space e.g. meeting BS-VI in years. In FY , the industry has implemented BS6. emission norms in India. The
Government has notified Electric vehicle technology and Hydrogen
fuel cell technology as advanced automotive technology under PLI
(Production Linked Incentive) scheme and has approved E-Vehicle
policy to promote India as a manufacturing destination for
e-vehicles. This will provide Indian consumers with access to latest
technology, boost the Make in India initiative, strengthen the EV
ecosystem by promoting healthy competition amongst EV players
leading to high production volumes, economies of scale, lower
production cost , a reduction in our crude oil imports, and hence
lower trade deficit and positive impact on environment. The Government has approved
E-Vehicle policy to Promote India
as a Manufacturing Destination
for e-vehicles. AUTO INDUSTRY IN FY -
In FY -, passenger vehicle sales reached a new all-time high,
with . million units sold, while commercial vehicle sales showed a
marginal growth of .% compared to FY23. The Indian auto industry
(excluding two-wheelers) achieved its highest-ever sales of .
million units, reflecting a year-on-year growth of .%.
Over ten years between FY - and FY -, the Utility
Vehicle (UV) segment has been a key driver of Passenger Vehicle
(PV) growth. FY -: UV grew at CAGR % vs PV which grew
at CAGR .%. UV, as share of PV, has increased from % in FY
- to .% in FY -. Industry Segment YoY Growth FY - FY - FY - FY - FY - FY - Passenger Cars ,, ,, ,, -.% .% -.% Utility Vehicles ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% MPV (Vans) ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% , , , .% .% .% Passenger Vehicles
MHCV
MHCV Passenger
MHCV Goods This growth in UV is driven by increased customer preference for UVstyled vehicles and new launches. In last two years, UVs have seen new launches vs launches in car segment. ,, ,, ,, .% .% -.% ICV Goods (. to 12T) , , , .% .% .% MCV Goods ( to .5T) , , , .% .% -.% HCV Goods >.5T
LCV We believe that electric vehicle
adoption in India would be led by
e-3W; the key drivers being
improving operating economies,
easy deployment for last/ﬁrst mile
connectivity (including at metro
stations) and the growth of startups as 3W aggregators. For the
year FY -, a total of
,, e-3W were sold with
growth of .%, accounting for
.% of the 3W industry. Domestic Industry Volume LCV Passenger ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% ,, ,, ,, .% .% -.% , , , .% .% .% LCV Goods < 2T GVW ,, ,, ,, .% .% -.% LCV Goods -.5T GVW ,, ,, ,, .% .% -.% LCV Goods > .5T GVW , , , .% .% .% ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% 3W Goods , , ,, -.% .% .% 3W-e-Rickshaw , , , NA .% .% 3W-e-Cart , , , NA .% .% ,, ,, ,, .% .% .% Total CV
3W Passenger 3W
Scooters ,, ,, ,, -.% .% .% Motorcycles ,, ,,, ,,, -.% .% .% Mopeds ,, ,, ,, -.% -.% .% ,,, ,,, ,,, -.% .% .% -.% .% .% ,,, ,,, ,,, -.% .% .% ,, ,, ,, -.% .% .% 2W
Quadricycle
Total Domestic
Total Domestic (Excl. 2W) TRACTOR INDUSTRY
The long-term growth outlook for the Indian tractor industry
remains positive. Over the period FY - to FY -, the
domestic tractor industry grew at a CAGR of .%. The key growth
drivers were increasing affordability, growing demand for farm
mechanization, emergence of newer technologies in the farming
sector and continued Government's focus on improving the state of
agriculture in India. TRACTOR INDUSTRY IN FY -
Indian tractor industry with an annual sale of . lakh unit in FY24,
saw a decline of around .% compared to FY -. Exports out
of India dropped by .% YoY and can be partly attributed to macroeconomic challenges in global environment. In FY -, the Indian tractor industry was impacted by erratic
monsoon distribution both spatially and temporally. Farm output in
both kharif and rabi season was affected by one of the strongest El
Nino seen in the last years. Prolonged dry weather also led to
excess irrigation usage, thereby escalating farm input cost. This put
pressure on the prof it margin of farmers. Limited period of
restrictions on export of food items like certain kinds of rice and
onions to arrest domestic inflation, further hit farm incomes. Overall
agriculture GVA showed muted growth at .% in FY -
compared to .% growth seen in previous year. Further,
Government spending on rural and agriculture also remained muted.
In FY -, employment generated under MGNREGA for
households fell short of demand by million.
Your Company's market share in the domestic tractor industry stood
at .% in FY -. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS YOUR COMPANY'S PERFORMANCE
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
In FY -, your Company maintained momentum across all its
SUV brands and was # position in SUVs by revenue. Your Company
was also # in LCVs < .5T, a feat that has remained unchallenged in
the industry for last nine years. Capitals, Mumbai Indians and Rajasthan Royals. The content
created with players generated a digital reach of million+ and million+ views on social media in collaboration with respective
team's social handles. Your Company was the official SUV partner to four popular IPL T-
teams in the season: Royal Challengers Bangalore, Delhi The table below summarises the performance of your Company
across various Industry segments: Industry Segment M&M Industry In FY -, THAR crossed . lakh cumulative retails in just .
years and we launched EARTH edition. M&M Market Share FY - FY - Growth FY - FY - Growth FY - FY - Utility Vehicles ,, ,, .% ,, ,, .% .% .% Passenger Cars ,, ,, -.% -.% .% .% MPV (Vans) ,, ,, .% , -.% .% .% Passenger Vehicles ,, ,, .% ,, ,, .% .% .% LCV Goods < 2T GVW ,, ,, -.% , , .% .% .% LCV Goods -.5T GVW ,, ,, -.% ,, ,, -.% .% .% LCV Goods < .5T ,, ,, -.% ,, ,, -.% .% .% , , .% , , .% .% .% LCV Goods Total ,, ,, -.% ,, ,, .% .% .% M+ICV Goods (. to .5T) ,, ,, -.% , , .% .% .% HCV Goods > .5T ,, ,, .% , , .% .% .% MHCV Goods ,, ,, -.% , , .% .% .% LCV Passenger , , .% , , .% .% .% CV Goods ,, ,, -.% ,, ,, .% .% .% CV Total ,, ,, -.% ,, ,, .% .% .% 3W ,, ,, .% , , .% .% .% Total Domestic ,, ,, .% ,, ,, .% .% .% LCV Goods > .5T GVW Your Company, on India's Independence Day i.e. 15th August, ,
unveiled the 'Go-Global' vision: "Mahindra Futurescape", at a megaevent in Cape Town, South Africa. In presence of India and Global
media; Vision of Thar.e was unveiled; a first look of Global Pik Up
vehicle was unveiled along with launch of a new Visual Identity for
Born Electric Vehicles and Sonic Identity and Brand Anthem for Born
Electric Vehicles by AR Rahman. In FY -, your Company was official broadcast sponsor of the
ICC Men's Cricket World Cup campaign with Disney+ Hotstar
and Star Sports. This campaign along with other brand related
activities resulted in your Company achieving # position in Brand
Power rankings (Highest ever score).
Your Company also delivered ,+ SCORPIO CLASSIC vehicles
specially customised for Indian Army. SCORPIO-N also rolled out Lakh vehicle in 20th Month of launch of the product; taking the
cumulative tally of SCORPIO produced till date to lakh+. XUV , the electric SUV; added another variant - EL Pro - to its
XUV line up with enhanced feature stack. The range was well received
by consumers and won three Electric car of the Year Awards.
Your Company's BOLERO is the only SUV brand across OEMs with
lifetime sales of over Lakh units. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Your Company's XUV700 became fastest Mahindra vehicle to achieve
.5L+ vehicles sales within months of launch. XUV reinforced
its superior Sci-F credentials by bringing the new line up. Your Company also launched Supro Profit Truck Excel in January,
. This product is redefining last-mile connectivity in SCV
segment and offers best-in-class payload, deck length and very high
mileage. Excel CNG Duo offers a range of 500km+, which eliminates
the range anxiety among customers completely. LMM
In the Last Mile Mobility (LMM) business, your Company sold
,, vehicles (domestic plus exports) in FY -, as against
, vehicles in FY -, a growth of .%. Your Company
has a wide range of offerings inclusive of electric, CNG, diesel and
petrol products in 3W and 4W which further expanded with multiple
new launches across the year. The new launch of Treo Plus has
strengthened the Company's customer value proposition of flagship
model with higher range and reliability. The continuous
improvements in the EV range have been enabled by strong in-house
competencies in the areas of battery, motor and telematics backed
by rigorous validation and experience of putting more than
,,+ three-wheeler EVs on the road. AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR TRUCK & BUS DIVISION
Your Company recorded phenomenal growth of % over last year
achieving , volumes. The industry grew by % and your
Company outperformed by times. All four Quarters in FY -
were EBDITA positive for your Company. Your Company launched the
Blazo X m-Dura range of trucks which was declared as 'Debutant CV
of the Year' at Apollo CV Awards . Your Company continues to retain # position in LCV <.5T segment
which is largest segment of CV industry for a decade now with .%
market share. LCV <.5T account for % of the total CV industry.
Your Company has been the leader in the Pik-Up segment for over years and it has always been your Company's endeavour to enhance
the Customer Value Proposition of its offering. Your Company
launched a whole new range of Pik-Up under the brand Maxx Pik-Up
catering to multiple requirements of intracity, intercity as well as
rural customers. The Maxx Pik-Up range launch had a series of pickups with a range of payload from . ton to ton, cargo lengths from feet to feet and fuel options of Diesel and CNG. In the new range,
your Company delighted the customers by providing advanced
connected technology iMaXX, class leading comfort with AC, D+
seating and height adjustable seats across the range. The Pik-Up DNA
of reliable, tough and rugged, high mileage and low maintenance cost
was carried forward to Maxx Pik-Up as well. With this launch, your
Company set the bar higher with the most capable pick-up with feet cargo and ton payload, which will be a difficult reach for
competition. The new portfolio helped your Pik-Up portfolio grow by
% against the competition de-growth of .% in F24. With launch
of Supro CNG Duo, your Company has entered into the dual-fuel
small commercial vehicles segment. It runs both on CNG and Petrol,
and offers high fuel efficiency and range. PRODUCTION MILESTONES
Your Company's Chakan Plant produced highest ever . lakh
vehicles in FY - and crossed million vehicles since
inception. The Haridwar Plant crossed lakh vehicles since
inception and crossed , vehicles milestone of e-Alfa Platforms
in FY -. Total Sales (3W+4W) in FY - ,,
Your Company is the pioneer for Electric Vehicles (EVs) in India, and
during the year under review, sold , EVs (domestic plus
exports) as against , EVs in the previous year, a growth of
.%. Your Company is committed to achieve sustainability targets
with strong growth plan and lead the EV revolution from the front.
In 4W segment, the launch of Jeeto Strong marked another
important milestone in the Company's journey to strengthen the 4W
last mile mobility. The Jeeto Strong retains the core value of Jeeto
brand - best-in-segment mileage - while bringing in a higher payload
capacity and more features. Chakan Plant
crossed lakh vehicles since
inception Haridwar Plant
crossed lakh vehicles since
inception MAHINDRA CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT (MCE)
During the year under review, your Company (under the Mahindra
EarthMaster brand) sold , Backhoe Loaders (BHLs), a %
increase as against sold in the previous year. Your Company also
has a presence in the road construction equipment business through
motor graders (under the Mahindra RoadMaster brand). MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS During the year under review, your Company sold motor graders,
a .% increase as against sold in the previous year. Your
Company also has a presence in the Sugar Cane Haulage market
(under the Mahindra HaulMaster brand) in the export market. The
BHL industry grew by % and the motor grader industry grew by
% due to increased focus from the Government of India on
infrastructure. FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR EXPORT FROM INDIA AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR During the period under review, your Company sold a total of
,, tractors (domestic plus exports from India), under the
Mahindra, Swaraj and Trakstar brands, against ,, tractors sold
in the previous year, registering a de-growth of .%. The Automotive Sector of your Company exported a total of ,
vehicles in FY -. Continued headwinds in South Asia and
Africa impacted the overall export volumes. However, there was
growth in the regions of Australia, New Zealand, South and Central
America, driven by strengthened SUV portfolio. In Australia, XUV700
saw good momentum, driving a multi-fold increase in retail offtake. In
South Africa, Scorpio-N stands among the top SUVs in the Body-onFrame SUV segment. In Tunisia, XUV300 received the Golden Wheel award for "Best seller in its segment". The Scorpio-N set a
Guinness World Record for fastest crossing by a production vehicle of
the Simpson desert in Australia. Your Company continues to focus on
bolstering its global operations through its portfolio of SUVs and
commercial vehicles. During the year, your Company marked numerous achievements,
from a product, manufacturing and global perspective, amidst strong
appetite for mechanisation among farmers. While domestic tractor
demand slowed down, global tractor markets were also weak
compared to the previous years. However, with a proactive approach,
your company remains poised to capitalize on opportunities. Going forward, M&M will continue to launch new implements and
farm machinery in the country through our Centres of Excellence
(CoEs) in Turkey, Finland and Japan (where your Company, over the
years, has created footprints through strategic stakes and
acquisitions). Going forward, the Company will launch the Mahindra Tractor brand
in new markets such as Europe and ASEAN for faster growth of
overall exports. ALLIED BUSINESSES
Besides rolling out new products, your
Company is also focussing on:
Revenue Growth
Growing Tractor Market share
Quantum Growth in Farm Machinery
Significantly Growing our International
Operations: .6x by FY26
Pioneering Technology Leadership
Deliver ROCE of %++ MAHINDRA POWEROL
Mahindra Powerol has been a significant player in the power back-up
industry for over years. With a No. position (by volume) in the
overall Power Generation market, Mahindra Powerol's network is
spread over service and sales touchpoints nationwide and over overseas locations. The Company's distinct business model
strategically balances its service and product contributions, each
equally vital to its revenue generation.
In addition to Telecom, Powerol has also been focusing on increasing
its retail market share by HkVA range extensions. With the successful
launch of CPCB4+ gensets, your Company has already sold over units in market so far. EXPORT FROM INDIA FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
For the year under review, your Company sold , tractors in the
export market. Exports during the year were sluggish due to a
slowdown in some key markets like the U.S., South Asia, etc.
Your Company sold ,, tractors, as compared to ,,
tractors in the previous year in domestic market (these figures for
the current year sales and previous year sales include tractors sold
by Gromax Agri Equipment Limited, a subsidiary of the Company),
reflecting a de-growth of .%, as against the industry de-growth of
.%. The year marks the second highest ever tractor volumes
sales achieved by your Company.
Your Company's FY - market share at .% continues to
position it as the domestic market leader for the 41st consecutive
year. Your Company's performance was supported by good
performance of all products in the portfolio across all three brands
viz. Mahindra, Swaraj and Trakstar.
Today, India has the third largest automotive industry in the world.
Your Company's products have gained share in this competitive
environment where multiple global OEMs are present. This gives us a
strong base to expand our global reach through our global ready
products. On the base, in Futurescape, South Africa, your Company
revealed aspirations for global expansion in August. As part of this
plan, your Company revealed the Global Pikup Concept at
Futurescape, Cape Town to potentially target ASEAN, Australia,
South Africa, South and Central America within the next few years.
Your Company also revealed aspirations to add new potential
markets like UK and Europe through the Born Electric Range. Farm Mechanisation is an important enabler to address the concerns
of farm productivity and farm labour shortage. Your Company has
aggressive plans to grow its Farm Machinery business, through
launch of 'Made in India' farm machinery products. These include
rotavators, harvesters and rice transplanters amongst others.
During the year, Mahindra Farm Machinery clocked the highest
ever revenue with a YoY % growth. This growth was driven by
record performance in rotavators where your Company is in 2nd
position with a market share of .% and a YoY volume growth of
% in rice transplanters. Your Company also launched new
products such as rotavators, loaders and backhoes in the North
American market. In FY -, your Company
launched the new Mahindra OJA in
the U.S. market, the second
largest market for Mahindra
outside India. With a focus on green energy, Powerol has also initiated an EV
charger business for home charger installations. Mahindra Powerol
has already installed over , chargers nationwide. Your Company
is also into Energy Storage Solutions through Li-ion batteries. CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
For the year under review, your Company (under the Mahindra
EarthMaster brand) sold , Backhoe Loaders (BHLs), a .%
increase as against sold in the previous year. Your Company also
has a presence in the road construction equipment business through
motor graders (under the Mahindra RoadMaster brand).
For the year under review, your Company sold motor graders, a
.% increase as against sold in the previous year. Your
Company also has presence in the Sugar Cane Haulage market
(under the Mahindra HaulMaster brand) in the export market. The
BHL industry grew by % and the motor grader industry grew by
% due to increased focus from the Government of India on
infrastructure. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS TWO-WHEELER SEGMENT
In line with the strategy for the two-wheeler business, your Company
through its subsidiary, Classic Legends Private Limited had
re-introduced the iconic brands 'Jawa' and 'Yezdi' to the Indian
market in the Financial Year and respectively. During
Financial Year -, Bobber was introduced and during
Financial Year -, Jawa was introduced to the Indian
market. In addition, the Company forayed into new international
markets through iconic British brand BSA in UK and European
market. The Government of India (GoI) has approved E-Vehicle policy to
promote India as a manufacturing destination so that e-vehicles with
the latest technology can be manufactured in the country. Last year,
the GoI introduced Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for
Automobile, Auto components, ACC (Advanced Chemistry Cells) and
semiconductors to overcome the cost disabilities of the industry for
manufacture of Advanced Automotive Technology products in India.
The GoI has recognised Electric Vehicle technology and Hydrogen
fuel cell technology as an Advanced Automotive Technology in the
country. In FY -, every
second passenger
vehicle sold was a
utility vehicle.
Milestone of million
annual UV sales was
crossed in F20 and it
took just years to
cross . million
annual sales mark. Your Company is a pioneer of Electric Vehicles in India and is actively
pursuing development of the Electric Vehicle (EV) market, products
and technology. Along with Electrification, your Company is also
working on alternate fuels technology. FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
Robust government support has spurred uptake in farm
mechanisation and contemporary farming techniques, alongside
broader rural development efforts. The volumes for Financial Year - were impacted with delays
in launching improved products and subdued marketing spends in
the Domestic market. Export volumes fell owing to slowdown in the
UK/European economies and the Russia-Ukraine conflicts, impacting
demand sentiments. However, with funding tied-up for the next level
of growth and new external investors coming on board, focus for
FY - will be on Product improvements, Dealer developments,
Network expansion, Cost reductions and to grow the volumes multifold in FY - and ahead. OPPORTUNITIES AND THREATS India which has a substantial base of small and marginal farmers,
grapple with numerous areas characterized by limited penetration of
farm mechanisation. As labor scarcity persists, escalating labor
costs, widespread adoption of diverse mechanization methods
emerge as the way forward. Considering these circumstances, the
trajectory of the tractor and farm machinery market is anticipated to
exhibit long-term growth. ALLIED BUSINESSES
The rising demand for power backup solutions and infrastructure
development will create opportunities in the power generation and
infrastructure equipment space. This is an opportunity for the
Company to grow its offerings in power solutions and construction
equipment. In Financial Year -, Passenger vehicles have reached a new,
highest-ever mark with . million sales units while commercial
vehicles have shown flat growth of .%. 3W reported growth of
.% with . million sales in FY - vs . million sales in FY
-. The shortage of semiconductors post-COVID- was
eased with normalised global supply in the last year, while the
increase in demand was influenced by higher disposable income,
credit availability, new launches and minor impact due to regulations.
To reduce the dependence on oil imports, the industry is exploring
options of alternate fuels like CNG, LNG, Ethanol, etc. The industry is
also exploring options of flex fuel vehicles in nearby future. The
industry is also investing in next generation technologies like
Electric Vehicles and hydrogen. With the aim to remain competitive in the market and sustain its
leadership position, your Company continues to invest in new
product development, technology upgradations, increasing channel
reach, while focussing on delivering customer centric products,
services and brand building. TAX REGULATIONS
India has traditionally seen a tax rate differential between small and
large passenger vehicles. This differential is based on length of the
vehicle, engine size and fuel type. While the flagship products of your
Company attract higher tax rates, your Company has strengthened
the UV product portfolio attracting lower tax rates with products
like XUV300, Bolero Neo, Bolero Power Plus and Thar. XUV400
attracts minimum GST amongst all passenger vehicle categories. NEW REGULATION FOR SAFETY RISKS AND CONCERNS AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Indian automotive industry has been christened as sunrise sector
and champion industry, due to the immense contribution the
industry makes to the Indian economy. Automotive industry turnover
is .% of India's GDP and more than % of manufacturing GDP. LCV Goods < .5T continue to dominate Commercial Vehicle sales
with a share of .%. AUTOMOTIVE AND
FARM EQUIPMENT SECTORS
The Company's business is exposed to many internal and external
risks and it has consequently put in place robust systems and
processes, along with appropriate review mechanisms to actively
monitor, manage and mitigate these risks. COMPETITIVE INTENSITY
Given the high growth potential of the Indian automotive market, all
OEMs, homegrown as well as MNCs, have a presence across all vehicle
segments in India. Today, multinational OEMs are deeply entrenched
in the Indian market with local development centres, a strong local
supplier base and good channel penetration. In the PV segment, the
differentiation between cars and UVs is largely blurred. The industry
has seen a shift in demand from cars to UVs. This resulted in a greater
number of launches in UVs compared to cars. Concerns over road safety are driving legislation and regulatory
reforms. Any new legislation requires technology development and
incurring of costs, in turn impacting vehicle prices. Your Company is
geared up and is conf ident of meeting any new regulations
introduced. NEW PRODUCTS AND TECHNOLOGIES
Your company has a comprehensive programme for development of
new products and technologies which will enable it to remain
competitive in the market, cater to emerging customer expectations
and to meet any legislative requirements. Along with Electrification,
your Company is also working on alternate fuels technology. ENVIRONMENT AND ALTERNATE FUELS
With concerns over air quality and the need to reduce dependence
on fossil fuels, the Government is actively pursuing large scale
adoption of EVs, especially for intracity uses in fleet application. COMMODITY PRICES
The Commodity prices in the FY - were moderate for most
part of the year compared to the previous year, on account of lower
global manufacturing activity and weak economic outlook, due to
elevated policy interest rates in the major world economies. Your
Company stayed focused on cost reduction through measures like
Value Addition (VA) / Value Engineering (VE), negotiation with
suppliers, long term price contracting, etc.
Your Company continues to watch the market situation closely and
continues to focus on mitigating commodity price volatility through
"Commodity Risk Management".
Hedging of currencies and commodities is being governed in
accordance with the Foreign Exchange Risk Management Policy and
Commodity Risk Management Policy approved by the Board of
Directors of your Company. CAPACITY
Through sustained efforts over the year, your Company has
enhanced monthly capacities of SUVs by %. We anticipate
producing ,, EVs between and from our cutting
edge Born Electric range. Furthermore, our investment proposal of
Rs. , Crores for electric vehicles was also approved under the
Industrial Promotion Scheme of Government of Maharashtra for
Electric Vehicles. Pursuant to our announcement of the Rs. ,
crores investment in Last Mile Mobility (LMM) business, we organised
a ground-breaking ceremony for a new manufacturing unit. With this
new facility, we aim to build state-of-the-art battery assembly line, producing power packs and manufacture electronic as well as
drivetrain components for electric -wheelers and -wheelers.
We expect these steps in augmenting capacity to cater to the robust
demand growth in domestic and international markets. In
partnership with our key suppliers, we are leveraging digitisation to
insulate our operations from supply chain volatility. MONSOON
A normal monsoon is important for both agriculture as well as the
rural economy at large. The tractor business in particular and the
automotive business to some degree, run the risk of a drop in
demand, in case of a significant variation in the monsoon. In addition,
an untimely monsoon and uneven spread has the potential of
adversely impacting the business. POTENTIAL LA-NINA IMPACT
Ÿ Ÿ Ÿ MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in its long range
forecast, predicted seasonal rainfall (June to September, )
to be 'Above Normal' i.e., at % of the Long Period Average
(LPA). Skymet's prediction was slightly lower at % of LPA. La
Nina conditions are expected to develop in the later half of
monsoon season.
The spatial distribution suggests that above-normal seasonal
rainfall is very likely over most parts of the country except some
areas over East and Northeast India, where below-normal rainfall
is likely.
Early onset of monsoon and IMD's affirmation of above-normal
rainfall is expected to boost rural sentiments. ONGOING REGIONAL CONFLICTS
Indian industry could have issues related to lower supplies of
components due to supply chain blockages prompted by the ongoing
Russia-Ukraine war and crisis in the Middle East. This could lead to a
rise in domestic fuel prices. OUTLOOK - AUTOMOTIVE
AND FARM SECTORS
Both the Automotive and Farm Sectors strive to sustain profitable
growth, maintain leadership position in the domestic market and
at the same time, explore global opportunities for growth.
Simultaneously, your Company continues its focus on achieving cost
leadership through focussed cost optimisation, productivity
improvements, value engineering, supply chain management, and
exploiting synergies between various group businesses. AUTOMOTIVE BUSINESS As per the Automotive Mission
Plan (AMP ), the mid
to long-term outlook for the
Indian auto industry is positive.
Hon'ble Prime Minister unveiled
Indian Auto Industry Vision @ mentioning Auto Industry is
the engine of economic growth. While the long-term outlook for the Indian Auto Industry is promising,
the industry took four years to pre-COVID levels in commercial
vehicles, three-wheelers and two-wheelers. Passenger vehicles
which had already recovered to pre-COVID levels last year, crossed
the . million mark in FY -. Factors that will significantly impact demand for automobiles in
FY - are: Policies by the Government to boost
consumption. Aggressive Government push for
infrastructure-led growth. Increase in cost of ownership due to
increase in commodity and fuel prices. TRACTOR AND FARM
EQUIPMENT BUSINESS
The mid to long term outlook for the Indian tractor industry is
positive. The industry is expected to see an upswing this year with
the expectations of above normal monsoon. Positivity in farm
sentiments were evident with higher summer acreage recorded this
year. Also, the hike in MSP by % YoY will further incentivise farmers.
Kharif sowing is expected to begin on time, which is likely to boost
tractor demand in the coming months. The Government budget on infrastructure and rural development
is likely to benefit commercial demand. Further, the demand for
mechanisation is also growing on account of likely increase in labour
cost owing to a shortage of agricultural labour. Several enabling
factors supporting industry growth like increasing cropping
intensity, diversification, institutional credit, consolidation of farm
holdings by FPOs, etc. have shown a positive trend in the last few
years. Increase in leasing of land from % in early 2000s to % in
FY - and the Government subsidy for mechanisation will
increase mechanisation coverage amongst small farmers. An
increasing trend of more farmers taking technical advice in
agriculture, also reflects the growth of progressive farmers.
High international commodity prices and logistic disruptions may
aggravate input costs leading to inflation. Quantitatively, the
southwest monsoon seasonal rainfall over the country as a whole is
likely to be % of the long period average (LPA) with a model error
of ± %. Thus, above-normal rainfall is most likely over the country as
a whole during the monsoon season (June to September, ).
Coupled with timely arrival of southwest monsoon in Kerala and
northeastern states, this has improved the on-ground sentiments of
farmers. Land preparation activities for Kharif crops are expected to
begin on time, which are likely to boost tractor demand in coming
months. STRATEGY
AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR
Your Company has been firing on all cylinders, moving from strength
to strength this year. We reinforced our place as the # SUV player by
revenue-share in the Indian market and are now the # Passenger
Vehicle manufacturer by revenue. Mahindra LCVs and electric
-wheelers dominate their respective segments with # market
share and our Trucks and Buses business grew 15X faster than the
industry.
External investors continue to show faith in our EV vision. The Last
Mile Mobility business entered into agreements to raise Rs. ,
crores at a valuation of over Rs. , crores from two external
investors, International Finance Corporation and India-Japan Fund (a
fund managed by National Investment and Infrastructure Fund
Limited). We added another marquee investor, Temasek, in Mahindra
Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) for an investment of Rs. ,
crores (in addition to the previous investment from British
International Investment Plc) at a valuation of up to Rs. , crores.
We made heads turn at our Cape Town event where we revealed the
future Lifestyle Global Pickup and the stunning Thar.e concept.
Bringing these concepts to life is the diverse and talented workforce
at Mahindra Research Valley, our flagship R&D and innovation centre.
MRV continues making strides in cutting-edge areas such as EVs,
Software Defined Vehicle, Digital Platforms and more with patents granted. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Yo u r Co m pa ny co n t i n u e s i t s ste a d fa st co m m i t m e n t to
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG). Not only are we ranked
4th among global OEMs on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, but
also the only Indian OEM to be featured for the third consecutive
year.
We also received D&B ESG Champions Award. We signed
commitments to increase the share of renewable energy from %
to % by FY26, abating over ,, tons of CO2 emissions.
Your Company plans to maintain the momentum by scaling core
areas with blockbuster launches and growth in international
markets. We also expect continued exceptional performance from
our new growth areas. FARM EQUIPMENT SECTOR
During the year, your Company entered the next phase of growth
amid heightened competition and disruption based on new
technologies and trends, with farm mechanisation gaining more and
more traction. During the year, the Company also launched the Swaraj Smart
Harvester. A first-of-its-kind in India, the industry-first features of
'Swaraj ' is its intelligent system, offering real-time information
to machine owners, including live location tracking, business
parameters tracking such as acres harvested, road kilometers
traveled and fuel consumption.
In Farm Machinery, your Company also launched a new row paddy
transplanter called the Mahindra 6RO Paddy Walker. Ensuring
uniform transplanting across the operational field, the Mahindra
6RO Paddy Walker is manually driven, is compact in design and is easy
to manoeuvre even in confined spaces, significantly reducing labor
cost, over an otherwise labour-intensive process. The new solution
will further enable water preservation, lower environmental impact
related to rice cultivation, while improving overall profitability of the
crop. Your Company further consolidated its presence in the
rotovators through the launch of newer products.
Your Company also introduced a number of upgrades to its popular
range of tractors. Your Company also launched new products in
rotary tillers, loaders and backhoes in the North American market. Operational Highlights
Takneek Plots: Transitioned to a phygital model,
enabling ,+ farmers to digitally access
advisory services. Achieved an average income
increase of Rs. , to Rs. , per acre.
Equipment Focus: Doubled efforts on tractor and
farm machinery (FM) sales, particularly rotavators,
leading to a sale of , tractors, implement sales
of Rs. crores, and Agri-input sale of Rs. crores.
Agri-Input Expansion: Introduced a diverse range of
crop input solutions, leveraging a network of over Krish-e Marts.
Krish-e Smart Kits: Collaborated with Carnot
Technologies to scale the deployment of Krish-e
smart kits (KSK), facilitating real-time asset tracking
for rental equipment owners. Efforts led to the sale
and installation of over , kits in FY -. During the year, Mahindra launched various new tractor models, as
well as new implements and farm machinery in the country through
collaboration with its COEs in Turkey, Finland and Japan (where the
Company, over the years, has created footprints through strategic
stakes and acquisitions). The transition to Krish-e . signifies a strategic shift towards
establishing Krish-e as an independent AgriTech start-up while
maintaining its role as a crucial moat within the parent company.
Krish-e's commitment to innovation and farmer empowerment
positions it strongly for future growth. The strategic initiatives
outlined for FY - demonstrates a clear focus on enhancing
customer value and expanding market presence. LAST MILE MOBILITY
Your Company is India's # EV 3W player with market share of .% in
3W EVs (as per SIAM). In the Company's pursuit to expand its market
presence, the Company will focus on geographical expansion through
cost-effective channel formats, ensuring broader access and increased
market penetration. Concurrently, the Company will introduce new
product refreshes and launches tailored to meet evolving market
demands. The recent launches in 3W and 4W have witnessed a very
strong momentum in both passenger and cargo segments. Your Company announced NIIF's
partnership with IJF's investment
in Mahindra's Last Mile Mobility
business. These investments
shall be for setting up the
manufacturing facility,
development and production of
the upcoming Electric Vehicles. In F24, your Company launched multiple category-defining product
platforms including Mahindra's much awaited Oja light-weight
tractor program, code named K2. A paradigm shift in tractor design
and engineering, the OJA is Mahindra’s Future Ready range of Global
Light Weight 4WD Tractors developed in collaboration with
Mitsubishi Mahindra Agriculture Machinery, Japan. The OJA will be
Made in India, for the World – serving diverse markets across continents. The OJA range is loaded with pioneering first-in-category
technology features, based on Three Technology Packs – MYOJA
(Intelligence Pack), PROJA (Productivity Pack) and ROBOJA
(Automation Pack). Krish-e .
Your Company, through Krish-e has made significant shifts in the
strategic roadmap and is launching new initiatives in FY -, the
groundwork for which has been ongoing in Q4 FY -. Some of
these include: During the year, the Company also launched a new range of Swaraj
Target tractors, a Compact Light Weight tractor range, developed
specifically for progressive and aspirational farmers who are eager
to embrace latest agricultural practices and technology. The Swaraj
Target range provides exceptional efficiency in spraying, interculture
operations, and various other applications. KRISH-e The Company also launched a new range of Naya Swaraj tractors in
India’s rapidly expanding and dominant - HP tractor segment.
The new range has infused modern aesthetics, integrated
contemporary design elements, and preserves the brand's authentic
timeless design, ushering in a sense of modernity and a new era for
the brand. Swaraj has also roped in its own satisfied customer and
legendary cricketer MS Dhoni to endorse the brand. Presence Krish-e, a division of your Company, is pioneering the Farming-as-aService sector in India, leveraging digital solutions to enhance
agricultural productivity and farmer income. A strategic overview of
Krish-e's performance and future initiatives is given below: Krish-e operates in more than centres, providing both physical
and digital farm advisory services, equipment sales, and IoT solutions.
The core objective is to empower farmers with progressive, affordable,
and accessible services throughout the crop cycle. Comprehensive Scientific Advisory: Enhancing
advisory services with tech-based predictive analysis
and revamped customer connectivity through a
revamped Krish-e App for farmers.
One-stop Solution: Launching an e-commerce
marketplace for Mahindra Agri Inputs, introducing
Krish-e Gold subscription model and integrating
Krish-e, FCM, and KSK apps.
E-commerce Convenience: Introducing doorstep
delivery of Agri inputs, expanding mobile access to
Krish-e offerings and offering choice in SKU selection
and rental entrepreneurs. Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited ("MLMML") was incorporated as a
subsidiary of your Company and commenced commercial operations
in September, . Indian Japan Fund ("IJF") will join International
Finance Corporation ("IFC") as an investor in MLMML. The wealth of
expertise of these marquee investors will be leveraged to drive the
continued growth of MLMML. MATERIAL DEVELOPMENTS IN
HUMAN RESOURCES AND
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS
THE MAHINDRA LEADERSHIP UNIVERSITY
The Mahindra Leadership University (MLU) has consistently delivered
impact through high velocity programs over the course of FY . In FY -, we re-defined our operating model to become a
Centre of Excellence for leadership development and delivered on
this mandate through multiple programs across critical areas. The
inputs from the 'People Conversations', periodic connects with the
CEOs and CHROs, and our focus on market scanning feeds into the
flagship Leadership Development Initiatives such as: MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Mahindra Accelerated Leadership Track (MALT):
We have partnered with Carnegie Mellon University
to develop an industry-leading accelerator
programme called MALT. This track seeks to identify
mid-career high potential talent from within the
diverse Mahindra businesses annually and prepare
them for an exciting career within the group. associates across batches have graduated so far.
The third batch of associates kickstarted their
year-long journey in January . These strategic initiatives reflect our commitment to nurturing
leadership talent, upskilling our workforce, and empowering
individuals to reach their fullest potential, driving sustained success
for Mahindra. Future Shapers: We initiated the Mahindra Future
Shapers programme with the intent to identify and
nurture the next generation of leaders within our
organization, consolidating their capabilities and
preparing them to drive our Company's growth. The
programme is being delivered through our long-term
strategic tie-up with Harvard University and leading
consulting firms. With two batches of participants
successfully concluded and the third batch ongoing,
we are leveraging our strategic partnership with
Harvard University and top consulting firms. Our learning experience platform now consolidates our
various digital learning content providers under a single
umbrella for the learner and by leveraging the power of
artificial intelligence and machine learning, it can provide
highly personalized learning content to our employees
across the Group. Furthermore, we have been able to
leverage the platform well beyond standardized elearnings and have driven + engagements across the
year on the platform. This has led to both a high adoption
rate as well as learner NPS. In FY -, we have seen
% adoption rate and more than million items of
learning consumed. We believe this is a testament to our
skills first approach of capability development and we
anticipate further demand for learning content over FY
-. RE-IMAGINING THE NASHIK CAMPUS
Our Nashik MLU campus is a world class facility built around the
modern learner. With multiple Mahindra plants and offices located in
a km radius of this facility, the campus is generally a beehive of
activity! It is detached from the hustle bustle of the city life and is
surrounded by more than trees, flora and fauna. Yet, because of
our digital first approach to learning, our learners are always
connected to the best learning resources always. In F24, the MLU conducted Development Programmes: Additionally, we
introduced the Future HR Leaders Programme in the
Third quarter of FY -, which focuses on
empowering mid-level HR professionals with
valuable business, functional and leadership skills.
We successfully concluded the Emerging Finance
Leaders Programme (EFLP) that was launched in the
last quarter of FY -. In collaboration with a
prominent leadership consulting f irm and the
prestigious Indian Institute of Management,
A h m e da bad , we p rov i d e d a co m p re h e n s i ve
curriculum to equip emerging finance leaders with
the necessary knowledge and skills to thrive in their
careers. Furthermore, we introduced "She Is On The
Rise" programme, a platform to empower and
develop women leaders at junior level. This initiative
aims to foster diversity, inclusivity, and gender
equality, promoting the growth and advancement
of women professionals in the workplace. Our
Technology Academy continues to focus on
developing deep skills across a range of emerging
technology areas through a combination of
in-person and online bootcamps. the learning experience truly world class, we launched the
EdCast by Cornerstone-Learning experience platform for
employees across our Group companies. + programmes
that saw ,+ learners
benefit over adoption rate and
more than This enables us to bring them world class faculty from within our
Group and outside at the touch of a button!
We hosted more than , learners over the course of the year with
an average score of . in terms of an in-campus experience. FUNCTIONAL TALENT ACCELERATORS
AT MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA
In our quest to build a healthy pipeline of technical talent in Product
Development and associated areas, we set up the Mahindra Research
Valley (MRV), with established design and development centres
across multiple geographies, which serve as a crucible for innovation
and technology for the Auto and Farm Divisions.
Through MRV's unique concept of 'Tech Ladder', we identify and
cultivate technical talent by working on performance management,
talent management and capability building. The Tech Ladder framework
successfully caters to more than
, engineers, covering multiple
Centres of Excellence (CoE) and
project functions across
Automotive and Farm Divisions. MAHINDRA LEADERS PROGRAM (MLP)
We deployed a flagship initiative i.e. Mahindra Leaders Program (MLP)
for attracting top leadership talent at the entry-level from top BSchools of the country. This program strengthens Mahindra's position
as an 'Employer of Choice' across premier B-School campuses and
creates a strong talent pool to drive future growth. In our quest to
build a vertically integrated Talent Model in the Mahindra group (MLP
to MALT to Future Shapers), this program helps us in providing a
continuous feedstock of young talent. Through this program, MLPs
join the Group across various Sectors and functions. As part of their
first-year experience, each MLP will undergo a full-year stint with our
Group Strategy Office and get exposure to various businesses. ,+
learninghours Our e-learning platforms have seen % million items of learning
viewed GROUP DIVERSITY COUNCIL (DEI)
At Mahindra, we prioritise Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) at our
workplace and strive to provide equal opportunities to all individuals. Highlights of our Digital
Learning Initiatives On an average, the campus hosts more than , learners each
year. Furthermore, the Nashik campus has world class classroom
facilities and can host more than learners simultaneously. From FY - onwards, our focus has been to bring
world class digital learning content to our employees
across all management grades. To that effect, we have
strategic partnerships with key content partners such as
Udemy, Harvard Spark, etc. Furthermore, in-order to make Apart from the ongoing maintenance activities, we have now reimagined the entire classroom experience such that it creates a
seamless blended learning experience. Our digital classroom
connects with learners who are sitting in Nashik, Chennai, Mumbai
and/or at home such that the learning experience is not impacted. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS Our policies ensure that no discrimination occurs based on gender or
disability regarding employment, promotion, termination or other
related issues. We consciously and proactively track diversity
representation in leadership roles, coverage in talent programs,
equity of appraisal outcomes and diversity hiring percentage. Ÿ We ensure that all job descriptions are free from biases in To enforce our commitment to D&I, the Group Diversity Council has
implemented a metrics-driven scorecard with a strong emphasis on
gender diversity. We also grant flexibility to our Group Companies
regarding other aspects of D&I. Ÿ We provide equal opportunities to all applicants, regardless of As part of our Equal Opportunity Policy, we equip our new recruits
with the necessary training to perform their job functions efficiently.
Our training programs include the 'Speak Up' campaign for
awareness about the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH)
refresher modules provided by our Ethics Counsellors. Enabling policies
Our HR policies have been reviewed, revised and framed keeping
employees at the core:
Ÿ Employee Benefits: include professional and medical allowance, education assistance, mobile reimbursement, option of sabbatical,
etc.
Ÿ Work Conditions: cover flexible working hours policy, work from home arrangements and part time work options, etc.
Ÿ Family Benefits: We have introduced policies to support better family life. These policies include women travel safety policy, a
comprehensive -year maternity support policy, support for
surrogacy, adoption and IVF, childcare facilities or contributions
includes Company-provided creche or reimbursement for the
facility, breastfeeding/lactation facilities or benefits, and paid
parental leave, amongst others. Additionally, we have established
an Equal Opportunity and Education Assistance Policy,
reaffirming our commitment to supporting women's health and
work-life balance while fostering a culture where every employee
feels valued, respected and empowered to thrive. language and promote equal consideration for all candidates. By
re m ov i n g ge n d e r- s p e c i f i c l a n gu a ge a n d e m p ha s i z i n g
qualifications and skills, we attract a more diverse pool of
applicants.
their background, ensuring a level playing f ield for every
candidate. Our commitment to fairness and equity ensures that
everyone has an equal chance to showcase their talents and
capabilities.
Ÿ Our referral program offers an extra % incentive for female referrals, incentivizing the diversification of our talent pool. By
encouraging employees to refer qualif ied candidates from
underrepresented groups, we expand our reach and increase
diversity within our organisation.
Ÿ We regularly track diverse profiles on the interview slate, ensuring significant representation at the initial stages of the recruitment
process. By monitoring diversity metrics, we hold ourselves
accountable and drive meaningful progress towards our DEI goals.
'Revive', second career program, offers support and flexible
opportunities for women re-entering the workforce. With a focus
on professional development and community engagement, the
program empowers participants to reignite their careers and
achieve long-term success.
While fostering diversity and inclusion, our hiring decisions are purely
based on talent, skills, and qualifications, ensuring a meritocratic
approach. By prioritising merit over other factors, we create a culture
of excellence and empower individuals to succeed based on their
abilities. Talent management
We are committed to advancing the career development of women
at all levels. We provide them with the chance to acquire new skills
and interact with senior leaders through various initiatives. The Women Mentoring program for the managerial band provides
career guidance and coaching opportunity to women from senior
leaders, enabling women to excel in their career paths. Ÿ 'Employee Health Index' is maintained at an individual level, and Similarly, Generation Valuable, a unique mentorship program under
Valuable , offers people with disabilities to build future executive
leadership and drives disability inclusion through systematic change. Ÿ The 'Wellness App' is available to employees for quick access to PREVENTION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT
AT WORKPLACE (POSH) critical health-related information.
Ÿ Various awareness sessions on driving employees towards a healthy and better lifestyle, Mental and Emotional Wellbeing,
Nutrition, Mindfulness, etc. were touched upon by experts during
the exclusive sessions for employees and their family members. TRANSFORMATIONAL WORK CULTURE
The Transformational Work Culture initiative aims to create an
engaged workforce with an innovative, productive and a competitive
shop-floor ecosystem. Some of the initiatives towards the same
include creating a culture of self-managed teams; 'Nayi soch - Naya
dristikon' - a mindset transformation program for cell members and
union leaders; i4-idea generation program, Rise award for associates
and Employee of the Year program for associates. All employees also
undergo trainings on Code of Conduct, POSH, ABAC and Human
Rights to ensure appropriate behaviour and governance. The
organization has also invested in capability-building programs which
include both behavioral and functional programs to ensure that the
workforce is equipped with future-ready skills and skills to advance
in their careers such as trainings on behaviour-based safety, quality
tools, TPM, personal presence and programs on current and future
skills such as Robotics, Mechatronics, Auto Electric Diagnostics,
Electric Vehicle Technology, etc. Industrial relations We continue to attract, retain and develop diverse talent through
initiatives where we focus on hiring and supporting women and
Persons with Disability through specialised hiring consultants. We
also want to improve gender diversity in areas of technology and
business operations, which is also going to be a thrust area for the
Company while ensuring a fair and inclusive recruitment process. To
achieve this, we implement several practices aimed at fostering
diversity and promoting equal opportunities for all candidates: The industrial relations scenario continued to be largely positive
across all the manufacturing locations. Long-term wage and bonus
settlements were closed amicably for all the plants. The sustained
efforts towards building a transformational work culture resulted in
zero production loss in FY -. 'Hire Right' Program, emphasizing the importance of diversity and
inclusion throughout the recruitment process. This program
equips our teams with the knowledge and skills necessary to
identify and eliminate biases in hiring decisions. this has been a useful tool in identifying employees who require
focused counselling and monitoring. Awareness in this area has been created by a POSH campaign
reiterating Mahindra's commitment to providing a safe workplace for
all its employees. During the year, the Company organized
sensitization and awareness programs through inductions training
for new joinees, sending emailers, creating standees and posters to
sensitize all employees to conduct themselves in a professional
manner. IC members were trained on Capability and Skill Building.
POSH Policy is translated in vernacular languages. Focussed hiring Ÿ We provide comprehensive training to hiring managers through Health and Safety
At Mahindra, we prioritise employee safety by implementing the
highest safety standards and upgrading our rigorous procedures in
line with technological advancements and best practices. MAHINDRA SKILL EXCELLENCE
The Mahindra Skill Excellence is an internal platform that aims at
holistic skill enhancement program for the shop floor associates.
Over the years, it has matured and in the current year, ,
associates have participated from across all its manufacturing units. The Company had a
total of ,
Permanent employees
on its rolls as on
31st March, . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
Your Company maintains adequate internal control systems
commensurate with the nature of its business and size and
complexity of its operations. These are regularly tested for their
effectiveness by Statutory as well as Management Auditors. Your
Company's Internal Financial Controls are deployed through the
Internal Control - Integrated Framework () issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), that addresses material risks in your Company's
operations and Financial reporting objectives. The framework is a combination
of entity-level controls (including
Enterprise Risk Management,
Legal Compliance Framework,
Internal Audit and Anti-Fraud
Mechanisms such as Ethics
Framework, Code of Conduct,
Whistle-Blower Policy, etc.),
process level controls, information
technology-based controls, period
end ﬁnancial reporting and closing
controls. Further, the Internal Control Systems have been designed to provide
reasonable assurance with regard to recording and providing reliable
financial and operational information. In the highly networked IT
environment of the Company, validation of IT Security receives
focussed attention from IT specialists and Statutory Auditors.
The Chief Internal Auditor reports administratively to the Chairman
of the Board and functionally to the Audit Committee. The Internal
Audit function develops an audit plan for the Company, which covers,
inter alia, corporate, core business operations, as well as support
functions. The Audit Committee reviews the annual internal audit
plan. Significant audit observations are presented to the Audit
Committee, together with the status of the management actions
and the progress of the implementation of the recommendations.
The Audit Committee reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Company's internal control environment and monitors the
implementation of audit recommendations. During the year, the
Company has taken steps to review and document the adequacy and
operating effectiveness of internal controls. Nonetheless, your
Company recognises that any internal control framework, no matter
how well designed, has inherent limitations and accordingly, regular
audits and review processes ensure that such systems are reinforced
on an ongoing basis.
Your Company's Management has carried out the evaluation of
design and operative effectiveness of these controls and noted no
significant deficiencies/material weaknesses that might impact
financial statements as at the Balance Sheet date. DISCUSSION ON FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE WITH
RESPECT TO OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE INVENTORIES OVERVIEW F24 F23 Raw materials and bought out components
as a % of cost of materials consumed .% .% Finished goods and Stock-in-trade as a %
of sales of products .% .% Raw materials and bought out components as a percentage of cost
of materials consumed has decreased mainly on account of build-up
of inventory last year due to BS6. Transition, Shortage of critical
components, which has been brought under control during the year
with various initiatives taken by the management. However, finished
goods and stock-in-trade as a percentage of sales of products has
increased mainly due to build up of inventory for on account of new
product launches and for the upcoming seasons. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Ind
AS as per the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended and notified under Section of the Companies Act, ('the Act') and other relevant provisions of the Act. TRADE RECEIVABLE The Group's consolidated financial statements have been prepared
in compliance with Ind AS on Consolidation of Accounts and
presented in a separate section. Trade Receivables are Rs. , crores as at 31stMarch, , as compared to Rs. , crores as at 31st March, . As a percentage of revenue
from sales of products and services, trade receivables are lower at .% as at 31st March, , as compared to .% for the previous year mainly
on account of better collection efforts and higher volume. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FINANCIAL INFORMATION
[STANDALONE] INCOME PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Particulars As at 31st March, , the Property, Plant and Equipment and
Intangible Assets stood at Rs. , crores as compared to Rs.
, crores as at 31st March, . During the year, the Company
incurred capital expenditure of Rs. , crores (previous year Rs.
, crores). The majority capital expenditure was on new product
development and capacity enhancement. F24 F23 Increase Amount % to Income
from Operations Amount % to Income
from Operations Sales of products , . , . . Sale of services , . , . . % Other operating revenue , . , . . Income from investment related to
subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures , . , . . ,, . , . . , . . . Income from operations BORROWINGS (Rs. crores) Other income
(Rs. crores) F24 F23 Decrease Long-term borrowings , , (,) Short-term borrowings , (,) , , (,) Borrowings Unclaimed matured deposits
Total Borrowings have decreased from Rs. , crores in the previous
year to Rs. , crores in the current year mainly due to
repayments in the current year. INCOME FROM OPERATIONS
The net sales and income from operations of the Company increased by .% as compared to the previous year mainly driven by performance of
the Auto business.
Sales volume in Auto segment witnessed an increase of .% clocking ,, vehicles in the current year from ,, vehicles in the
previous year.
Increase in volumes combined with higher realisation and increase in investment related income from subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures
led to Income from operations growing by .% as compared to the previous year.
Other income during the year ended 31st March, at Rs. , crores is higher than Rs. crores earned in the previous year mainly on
account of higher fair value gain on certain non-current investment in the current year. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS F24 Particulars Inc./(Dec.) F23 Amount
(Rs. crores) % to Income
from Operations Amount
(Rs. crores) % to Income
from Operations % Material costs , . , . . Employee beneﬁts expense , . , . . . . (.) Finance costs
Depreciation, amortisation and
impairment expense
Loss from investment related to
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures , . , . . . . . Other expenses , . , . . Total expenses , . , . . EXPENDITURE
The total expenditure during the year as a percentage of income
from operations is .% as compared to .% in the previous year.
The reduction reflects the cost management initiative undertaken
by the Company. DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION
AND IMPAIRMENT EXPENSE
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expenses as a
percentage of income from operations shows decrease over the
previous year mainly due to higher revenue base in current year. The key financial ratios of the Company are given as below:
M&M Particulars
Debtors Turnover (times) . . Inventory Turnover (times) . . Interest Coverage Ratio (times) . . Current Ratio (times) . . Debt Equity Ratio (times) . . Operating Proﬁt Margin (%) .% .% Net Proﬁt Margin (%) .% .% Return on Net Worth (%) .% .% Explanation for variation of % or more in Key Financial Ratio:
Interest Coverage Ratio: The interest coverage ratio is healthier at
. times in FY - as against . times in the previous year
primarily due to decrease in finance cost resulting from repayment
of borrowings during the year. MATERIAL COST FINANCE COSTS Debt Equity Ratio (times): The debt equity ratio is at . in current
year as against . in previous year primarily due to repayment of
borrowings during the year. The material cost as a percentage of income from operations has
decreased from .% in the previous year to .% in the current
year mainly on account of benign commodity prices and various
initiatives taken by the management for higher material cost savings. The interest expense as a percentage of income from operations has
decreased from .% in the previous year to .% in the current
year mainly on account of repayment of borrowings in current year. Net profit margin (%): Ratio has improved on account of increase in
profit for the year. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
The personnel cost as a percentage of income from operations has
increased from .% in the previous year to .% in the current year. OTHER EXPENSES
Other expenses as a percentage of income from operations is same
as previous year at .% mainly for various cost management
initiatives undertaken by the Company. LOSS FROM INVESTMENT RELATED TO
SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES
AND JOINT VENTURES
Loss from investment related to subsidiaries, associates and joint
ventures as a percentage of income from operations has marginally
increased from .% in the previous year to .% in the current year. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
Exceptional items in the previous year comprises of profit earned on
sale of certain long-term investments partly offset by impairment of
certain investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures and
certain long-term assets. TAX EXPENSE
The provision for current tax and deferred tax for the year ended 31st
March, , as a percentage to profit before tax is .% is higher
than the previous year of .% mainly on account of deferred tax
assets created out of accumulated capital losses in the previous
year. Return on Net Worth (%): Ratio has improved on account of increase
in profit after tax in current year. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
POSITION OF THE M&M GROUP
As on 31st March, , for the purpose of consolidation as per Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS), the Group comprised of the flagship
holding company Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates. The Consolidated Income from operations is Rs. ,, crores in
the current year as compared to Rs. ,, crores in the previous
year, registering an increase of .%.
The Consolidated Profit before exceptional items, share of profit
of associates and joint ventures and tax for the current year is
Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous
year, registering an increase of .%. The consolidated profit after
tax after non-controlling interest and exceptional items for the year
is Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous
year, registering an increase of .%.
Tech Mahindra Limited, Flagship Company in the IT Sector, reported
a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. , crores in the current
year as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous year,
registering a decrease of .%. Its consolidated profit after tax after
non-controlling interests is Rs. , crores as compared to Rs.
, crores in the previous year, registering a decrease of .%.
With a new leadership team, Tech Mahindra has embarked on a multi
year transformation. The overarching goal is to achieve leadership in
the segments it operates in with well defined growth and operational
strategy. The positive long-term growth outlook for the technology
sector, driven by digital transformation, increasing adoption of newage technologies, and expanding global markets, supports Tech
Mahindra's strategic focus. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS The Group's finance company, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited, a listed subsidiary of the Company (Mahindra
Finance), reported a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. ,
crores during the current year as compared to Rs. , crores in the
previous year, registering an increase of .%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. ,
crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous year, registering
a decrease of .%. Mahindra Finance customer base has crossed .
million customers. During the year, AUM (Business assets) crossed Lakh crores i.e. Rs. ,, crores with a year on year increase of
%. Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited, a listed subsidiary in
the business of timeshare, registered a consolidated operating
revenue of Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the
previous year, registering an increase of .%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering
an increase of .%. As the leading vacation ownership brand in
India, Club Mahindra's expansion plans and innovative offerings in
hospitality highlight our strategic focus on enhancing customer
experience and expanding market reach for Emerging India and its
aspirations. Swaraj Engines Limited, a listed subsidiary in the business of
manufacturing of Diesel Engines and its components, reported
operating revenue of Rs. , crores as compared to Rs. ,
crores in the previous year registering a decrease of .%. The profit
after tax for the year is Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores
in the previous year, registering an increase of %. SEGMENT RESULTS AFTER SHARE OF
PROFIT/(LOSS) OF ASSOCIATES
AND JOINT VENTURES
The results achieved by major business segments of the Group are
given below: (Rs. in crores) Segments F- F- . Automotive , , . Farm Equipment , , . Financial Services , , . Industrial Businesses and
Consumer Services , , . Eliminations () , , Services: Total Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, a listed subsidiary in the
business of real estate and infrastructure, reported a consolidated
operating revenue of Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores in
the previous year, registering a decrease of .%. The consolidated
profit after tax after non-controlling interest for the year is Rs. crores as compared to Rs. crores in the previous year, registering
a decrease of .%. By launching multiple new projects and
achieving record sales, Lifespaces exemplifies how we have used a
focused growth strategy to expand our footprint in key urban
markets of Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Bangalore and Pune
while making innovative and sustainable urban developments our
core differentiator. Mahindra Logistics Limited, a listed subsidiary in the logistics
business, reported a consolidated operating revenue of Rs. ,
crores as compared to Rs. , crores in the previous year
registering an increase of .%. The consolidated loss after tax after
non-controlling interests for the year is Rs. crores as compared to
a profit of Rs. crores in the previous year, registering a decrease of
.%. DISCLAIMER
Certain statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis
describing the Company's objectives, projections, estimates,
expectations or predictions may be "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations.
Actual results could differ from those expressed or implied.
Important factors that could make a difference to the Company's
operations include raw material availability and prices, cyclical
demand and pricing in the Company's principal markets, changes in
Government regulations, tax regimes, economic developments
within India and the countries in which the Company conducts
business and other incidental factors. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY
GOVERNANCE ON CORPORATE Since inception, the Company stood for many things that
money can’t buy, the most essential being reputation - a
product of decades of ethical practices and good governance.
Over the years, your Company has institutionalised some of
the best practices of corporate working and behaviour in its
processes and addressed the governance issues transparently
and effectively.
Although your Company had to constantly evolve to survive
in a competitive economy, there are values - intrinsic to
its corporate culture - that it has preserved and will carry
forward with it into the future.
During the year under review, your Company continued
to feature in the ‘Leadership’ category in the Indian
Corporate Governance Scorecard which is developed
by Institutional Investor Advisory Services India Limited
(“IiAS”) with support from International Finance Corporation
(“IFC”) and BSE Limited (“BSE”) built around the G20/OECD
Principles of Corporate Governance, which is the globally
accepted benchmark for Corporate Governance.
A Report on compliance with the Corporate Governance
provisions as prescribed under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, , as amended from time to
time (“Listing Regulations”) is given herein below: I. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The composition of the Board of your Company is in
conformity with Regulation of the Listing Regulations.
The Chairman of your Company, though a Professional Director
in his individual capacity, is a Promoter & Non‑Executive
Director and the number of Non-Executive and Independent
Directors is more than one-half of the total number of
Directors.
Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer and Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director and
CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) are the Whole-time Directors
of your Company. The remaining Non-Executive Directors
comprise of Seven Independent Directors (including Three
Woman Directors). During the Financial Year -, Mr. CP Gurnani (DIN:
) and Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN: )
have ceased to be the Directors of your Company.
Mr. CP Gurnani resigned as Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director of your Company with effect from 20th December, coinciding with his retirement as Managing Director &
CEO at Tech Mahindra Limited and Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
resigned as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of your
Company with effect from 20th December, on account
of withdrawal of his nomination by Life Insurance Corporation
of India (“LIC”) upon him attaining the age of years.
Further, the Board of Directors of the Company, based on
the recommendation of the Governance, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”) at its Meeting held on
14th February, has considered and appointed, with
effect from 17th May, :
.	Ms. Padmasree Warrior (DIN: ) as an Additional
Director (Independent and Non-Executive) to hold
office as an Independent Director for a term of (five)
consecutive years upto 16th May, ;
. Mr. Ranjan Pant (DIN: ) as an Additional
Director (Non-Executive and Non-Independent), liable to
retire by rotation; and
. Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo (DIN: ) as an Additional
Director
(Non-Executive
and
Non-Independent)
representing LIC, liable to retire by rotation.
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai (DIN: ), has ceased to be
an Independent Director of your Company with effect
from 30th April, consequent to completion of her
second term of appointment and upon she attaining the
age of years.
The composition of the Board represents an optimum
combination of knowledge, experience and skills from
diverse fields including manufacturing, finance, economics,
law, governance, etc. which are required by the Board to
discharge its responsibilities effectively. The Directors take
active part in the deliberations at the Board and Committee
Meetings by providing valuable guidance and expert advice
to the Management on various aspects of business, policy
direction, strategy, governance, compliance, etc. and play a
critical role on strategic issues and add value in the decision
making process of the Board of Directors. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E The maximum tenure of Independent Directors is in
compliance with the Companies Act, (“the Act”) and
the Listing Regulations. All the Independent Directors have
provided an annual confirmation that they meet the criteria
of Independence as mentioned in Regulation ()(b) of the
Listing Regulations and section () of the Act. Based on
the confirmations/ disclosures received from the Independent
Directors, the Board of Directors of the Company is of the
opinion that the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions
specified in the Listing Regulations and are Independent of
the Management.
Apart from reimbursement of expenses incurred in the
discharge of their duties, the remuneration that these Directors
were/are entitled to under the Act as Non-Executive Directors
and the remuneration that a Non-Executive Director may
receive for professional services rendered to the Company
through a firm in which he is a partner, none of these Directors
have any other pecuniary relationships with your Company,
its Subsidiaries or Associates or their Promoters or Directors,
during the three immediately preceding financial years or
during the current financial year. None of the Directors of your
Company are inter-se related to each other.
Mr. CP Gurnani was Managing Director & CEO of Tech
Mahindra Limited upto 19th December, and had waived
his right to receive sitting fees for attending the Meetings of
the Board of Directors or any other remuneration payable
to the Non‑Executive Directors of the Company, during his
tenure, from 1st April, to 19th December, as a
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director on the Board of
Directors of the Company.
Professional fees for the year under review to Khaitan & Co.,
(Mumbai and Kolkata), Advocates & Solicitors and Khaitan
& Co. LLP, Advocates and Solicitors, in which Mr. Haigreve
Khaitan, Non-Executive and Independent Director is a partner,
amounted to Rs.. lakhs and Rs.. lakhs (including
out of pocket expenses), respectively. The fees received by
Khaitan & Co., (Mumbai and Kolkata) and Khaitan & Co. LLP
from the Company, its Subsidiary or Associate companies
does not exceed ten per cent or more of the gross turnover
of Khaitan & Co., (Mumbai and Kolkata) and Khaitan & Co.
LLP, respectively. The Senior Management of your Company has made
disclosures to the Board confirming that there are no material
financial and commercial transactions between them and the
Company which could have potential conflict of interest with
the Company at large. C. Composition of the Board
The Board of your Company comprised of Ten Directors as on 31st March, : Board Composition (as on 31st March, )
Gender Diversity A. Role of Chairman
As Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra serves
as Mentor and Sounding Board for the Managing Director
and Senior Management especially in the areas of Strategic
Planning, Risk Mitigation and External Interface. He continues
to play an important role in epitomising and building Brand
Mahindra. He is available to provide feedback and counsel to
the Managing Director and Senior Management on key issues
facing the Company. B. Role of MD and CEO
As MD and CEO, Dr. Anish Shah plays a pivotal role in driving
the Company’s success by executing strategic initiatives in
alignment with the Board’s vision. Responsible for Brand
equity, Strategic planning and External relations, he oversees
all facets of the Company’s Management. This includes
achieving annual and long-term business targets, monitoring
market dynamics and identifying growth opportunities.
In addition to leading and evaluating executive leaders, the
MD and CEO acts as a vital link between the Board and the
Management team. He champions the organization’s vision
and mission, ensuring he guides every aspect of operations.
By building strong customer relationships and exploring
avenues for expansion and acquisition, the MD and CEO
enhances Shareholder value and propels the Company
towards its strategic objectives.
The key responsibilities also include nurturing the Company’s
reputation, fostering Stakeholder relationships and upholding
Corporate Governance Standards. By steering the organization
with vision and purpose, the MD and CEO drives sustainable
growth and excellence across all levels of the Company. Board Demographics %
Women % Executive Directors % Independent Directors
(Including Women
Independent Directors
- %) %
Male Director’s Duration on Board % Non-Executive
Non-Independent
Directors % More than Years % - Years % - Years None of the Directors is a Director (including any alternate directorships) in more than public limited companies (as specified
in section of the Act) and Director in more than equity listed entities or acts as an Independent Director in more
than equity listed entities or equity listed entities in case he/she serves as a Whole-time Director/ Managing Director in
any listed entity (as specified in Regulation 17A of the Listing Regulations). Further, none of the Directors on the Board is a
Member of more than Committees and Chairperson of more than Committees (as specified in Regulation of the Listing
Regulations), across all the Indian public limited companies in which he/ she is a Director.
The names and categories of Directors, DIN, the number of Directorships, Committee positions held by them in the companies
and the names of listed entities where he/she is a Director alongwith the category of their Directorships and other details are
given hereafter. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Board of Directors as on 31st March, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
(DIN – )
Promoter - Chairman Nationality Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN – )
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (DIN – )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) (DIN – )
Lead Independent Director Nationality Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 30th May, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date 7th August, (End of 2nd Term) Shareholding , Shares (.%) Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 23rd November, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date N.A. Shareholding ,, Shares (.%) USA (OCI Card Holder,
Resident of India) Age Date of Appointment 1st April, Tenure on Board years Term Ending Date 31st March, Shareholding ,, Shares (.%) Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Mahindra Logistics Limited Chairman, Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director Technology and
Innovation Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Nil Sales and
Marketing Exposure Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight , Shares (.%) Chairman, Non-Executive
Non-Independent Director Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Area
of Expertise 31st March,  ahindra & Mahindra Financial
M
Services Limited  ahindra Holidays & Resorts
M
India Limited Governance and
Regulatory
oversight years Shareholding Chairman (Non-Executive,
Non-Independent) Business
Experience Tenure on Board Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Tech Mahindra Limited Sales and
Marketing Exposure 1st April, Tech Mahindra Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Chairperson: Nil
Member: Date of Appointment Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer  ahindra Lifespace Developers
M
Limited Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Promoter - Chairman Age Term Ending Date Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Other Directorships* Indian Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Executive Director and CEO
(Auto and Farm Sector) Swaraj Engines Limited Chairman Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Lead Independent Director Colgate-Palmolive (India) Limited Independent Director Apollo Tyres Limited Independent Director Jubilant Food Works Limited Independent Director Inter Globe Aviation Limited Independent Director Global Health Limited Independent Director Larsen and Toubro Limited^ Independent Director Other Directorships* Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Business
Experience Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience ^
ceased with effect from st April, *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Dr. Vishakha N. Desai Mr. T. N. Manoharan Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Ms. Shikha Sharma (DIN – )
Independent Director (upto 30th April, ) (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Independent Director Nationality USA (Nationality of Origin ‑ Indian) Nationality Indian Age Age Date of Appointment 11th November, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date 10th November, (End of 2nd Term) Date of Appointment 30th May, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date 30th April, (End of 2nd Term) Shareholding , Shares (.%) Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Other Directorships* Independent Director
Nil Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Shareholding Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Tech Mahindra Limited Independent Director IDBI Bank Limited Independent Director Other Directorships* Nil Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Indian Nationality Indian Age Age Date of Appointment 8th August, Tenure on Board years and months Date of Appointment 8th August, Term Ending Date 7th August, (1st Term) Tenure on Board years and months Shareholding Nil Term Ending Date 7th August, (1st Term) Shareholding Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director CEAT Limited Independent Director Tech Mahindra Limited Independent Director JSW Steel Limited Independent Director Borosil Renewables Limited Independent Director Reliance Industries Limited^ Independent Director Dalmia Bharat Limited^ Independent Director Torrent Pharmaceuticals
Limited^^ Independent Director Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight
Technology and
Innovation Nationality Business
Experience Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. Technology and
Innovation Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Limited Independent Director Tata Consumer Products Limited Independent Director Tech Mahindra Limited Independent Director Piramal Enterprises Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Sales and
Marketing Exposure Business
Experience Area
of Expertise
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight ^
appointed with effect from st April, .
^^
ceased with effect from st April, .
*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Additions to the Board of Directors with effect from 17th May, Ms. Nisaba Godrej Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Ms. Padmasree Warrior Mr. Ranjan Pant (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Independent Director (DIN – )
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 8th August, Tenure on Board years and months Term Ending Date 7th August, (1st Term) Shareholding Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Godrej Consumer Products Limited Executive Chairperson Nationality Indian Nationality USA (Nationality of Origin - Indian) Nationality Indian Age Age Age Date of Appointment 8th August, Date of Appointment 17th May, ^ Date of Appointment 17th May, ^ Tenure on Board years and months Tenure on Board - Tenure on Board - Term Ending Date August, ( Term)
Term Ending Date 16th May, (1st Term) Term Ending Date N.A. Shareholding Nil Shareholding Nil th Shareholding st Nil Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Godrej Agrovet Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director VIP Industries Limited Independent Director E.I.D. Parry (India) Limited Whole Time Director & CEO Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Independent Director Bharti Airtel Limited Independent Director Other Directorships* Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member:  ommittee details as per
C
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Other Directorships* Committee details as per
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil
Member: Nil Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director Nil Other Directorships* Chairperson: Nil  ommittee details as per
C
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Member: Nil Sales and
Marketing Exposure Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight *	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Member: Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight Governance and
Regulatory
oversight Technology and
Innovation Business
Experience Area
of Expertise Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience
Financial Experience
and Risk Oversight ^
Appointment is subject to approval of the Shareholders of the Company.
*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo
(DIN – )
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director D. Board Procedure •	Material Default in Financial Obligations, if any; A detailed Agenda, setting out the business to be transacted
at the Meeting(s), supported by detailed Notes and
Presentation(s) if any, is sent to each Director at least seven
days before the date of the Board Meeting(s) and each
Committee Meeting(s) except where Meeting(s) have been
convened at a shorter notice to transact urgent business.
To provide a web-based solution, a soft copy of the said
Agenda(s) and Presentation(s) is also uploaded on the
Board Portal which acts as a document repository. Video
Conferencing facilities are provided to enable Director(s) who
are unable to attend the Meeting(s) in person, to participate
in the Meeting. •	Fatal or Serious Accidents; To enable the Board to discharge its responsibilities
effectively and take informed decisions, the Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer apprises the Board at
every Meeting of the overall performance of your Company,
followed by Presentation(s) by the Executive Director, the
Sector President(s) and Chief Financial Officer. A detailed
functional Report is also presented at the Board Meeting(s). The Board sets annual performance objectives, oversees the
actions and results of the management, evaluates its own
performance, performance of its Committees and individual
Directors on an annual basis and monitors the effectiveness
of the Company’s governance practices for enhancing the
stakeholders’ value. Nationality Indian Age Date of Appointment 17th May, ^ Tenure on Board - Term Ending Date N.A. The Board inter alia, periodically Reviews/Approves: Shareholding Nil •	Strategy and Business Plans; Board Memberships - Indian Listed Companies / Entity •	Investment and Exposure Limit(s); Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director  ife of Insurance Corporation
L
of India Managing Director Other Directorships* Nil •	Performance of Operating Divisions;  ommittee details as per
C
Regulation of Listing
Regulations** Chairperson: Nil •	Major Legal Issues; •	
Compliance Report(s) of all laws applicable to your
Company, as well as steps taken by your Company to
rectify instances of non-compliances; •	Minutes of the Committees of the Board and of Board
Meetings of your Company’s Unlisted Subsidiary Companies; Sales and
Marketing Exposure
Business
Experience Area
of Expertise •	Significant Transactions and Arrangements entered into
by the Unlisted Subsidiary Companies;
•	Quarterly / Half-Yearly / Annual Results;
•	Significant Labour Problems and their proposed solutions;
•	Safety and Risk Management;
•	
Transactions pertaining
Property(ies); to Purchase/Disposal of •	Sale of Investments;
^
Appointment is subject to approval of the Shareholders of the Company.
*	Excludes Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies Registered under section of the Act and includes Additional Directorship.
**	Committees considered are Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, including that of your Company. Committee Membership(s) includes Chairmanship(s).
Note:
•	The profile of the Directors is available on the website of the Company at: https://www.mahindra.com/leadership. •	Any Material Effluent or Pollution Problems;
•	Transactions that involve Substantial Payment Towards
Goodwill, Brand Equity or Intellectual Property;
•	Any issue that involves possible Public or Product Liability
Claims of Substantial Nature, including judgement or
order which may have passed strictures on the conduct
of your Company; and
•	Quarterly details of Foreign Exchange Exposures and the
steps taken by Management to limit the risks of adverse
exchange rate movement, statutory updates, etc. The Board of Directors of your Company closely monitors
the performance of the Company and Management, approves
the plans, reviews the strategy and strives to achieve
organisational growth. Your Board ensures statutory and
ethical conduct and places high importance on the internal
financial reporting. •	Annual Operating and Capital Expenditure Budget(s); Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Member: Nil •	Major Accounting Provisions and Write-Off;
•	Corporate Restructuring, Joint Ventures or Collaboration
Agreement(s); Your Company has a well-established framework for the
Meetings of the Board and its Committees which seeks to
systematise the decision making process at the Meetings
in an informed and efficient manner. Regular inputs and
feedback of Board Members are taken and considered while
preparing the Agenda and related documents for the Board
and Committee Meetings. The Board also has access to the
Members of the Management and to the Company related
information. Apart from Board Members and the Company
Secretary, the Board and Committee Meeting(s) are also
attended by the Chief Financial Officer and wherever required,
by the Heads of various Corporate Functions.
The Company Secretary plays a key role in ensuring that
the Board (including Committees thereof) procedures are
followed and regularly reviewed. The Company Secretary is
primarily responsible to assist and advise the Board in the
conduct of affairs of the Company, to ensure compliance
with applicable statutory requirements, to provide guidance
to Directors, to facilitate convening of Meetings and acts
as interface between the Management and Regulatory
Authorities for Governance related matters of the Company. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Further, effective follow-up on action items from Board
Meetings is essential for organizational success. These action
items play a pivotal role in guiding strategic initiatives and
operational changes. Therefore, it is imperative to promptly
distribute these action items to relevant functional heads,
accompanied by clear directives and deadlines. A robust
tracking system is established to monitor and review
each action item continuously until satisfactory closure. This proactive approach fosters accountability within the
organization and facilitates timely execution of critical tasks.
By ensuring prompt dissemination of action items, providing
clear guidance and implementing a diligent tracking process,
the organization demonstrates a commitment to operational
excellence and the successful implementation of strategic
directives set forth by the Board. E. Number of Board Meetings, Attendance of the Directors at Board Meetings and at the
last Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
During the year 1st April, to 31st March, , Nine Board Meetings were held on 26th May, , 7th July, , 26th July,
, 4th August, , 15th September, , 9th & 10th November, , 2nd February, , 14th February, and 18th &
19th March, . The Board met at least once in every Calendar Quarter and the gap between two consecutive Meetings did
not exceed one hundred and twenty days. These Meetings were well attended by the Directors.
The 77th AGM of your Company was held on 4th August, through Video Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means
(“OAVM”) facility.
The attendance of the Directors at these Meetings held during the year, was as under: AGM and Board Attendance Name of the Directors AGM,
4th
August, (VC/
OAVM) Board Meeting Dates and Mode 26th
May, 7th
July, 26th
July, 4th
August, 15th
September, 9th & 10th
November, 2nd
February, 14th
February, 18th & 19th
March, Hybrid VC VC Hybrid VC Hybrid VC Held
during
tenure Attended % of
attendance
of a Director Hybrid Physical Mr. Anand G. Mahindra      % Dr. Anish Shah    %   
  Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar % Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta    
 % Dr. Vishakha N. Desai    .% % Mr. T. N. Manoharan  Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma*
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan 
 Ms. Shikha Sharma    Mr. CP Gurnani*  Ms. Nisaba Godrej % Attended through Video Conference %  % Leave of Absence     
    %  N.A. N.A. 
 Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
% of attendance at a Meeting  
 
  + 
 % Day - %
Day - % % %  +  N.A. N.A. %   %  .% N.A. N.A. .% 
 
 % % % Day - %
Day - % Attended in-person * Ceased to be a Director of the Company with effect from 20th December, . F. Meetings of Independent Directors
The Independent Directors of your Company often meet
before the Board Meeting(s) without the presence of the
Chairman, the Managing Director or the Executive Director or
other Non‑Independent Director(s) or any other Management
Personnel.
These Meetings are conducted in an informal and flexible
manner to enable the Independent Directors to, inter alia,
discuss matters pertaining to review of performance of Non-Independent Directors and the Board of Directors as
a whole, review the performance of the Chairman of the
Company (taking into account the views of other Executive
and Non-Executive Directors), assess the quality, quantity
and timeliness of flow of information between the Company
Management and the Board that is necessary for the Board of
Directors to effectively and reasonably perform their duties.
Five Meetings of Independent Directors were held during the
year under review and these Meetings were well attended by
the Independent Directors. The Independent Directors communicate as appropriate,
suggestions, views or concerns to the Chairman or Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer upon conclusion of
their Meeting(s). G. Director(s) seeking Appointment/
Re‑appointment
Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company, liable to retire by rotation and being eligible
for re-appointment at the ensuing AGM of your Company, has
offered himself for re-appointment.
The GNRC is entrusted with the responsibility for developing
competency requirements for the Board, based on the
Industry, Strategy and Vision of the Company.
The Board composition analysis reflects an in-depth
understanding of the Company, including its strategies,
environment, operations, financial condition and compliance
requirements.
The GNRC advises the Board on the appointment and
re-appointment of Directors and also conducts periodic
gap analyses to refresh the Board and reviewing potential
candidates’ profiles to ensure they have the required
competencies.
The GNRC also undertakes reference and due diligence
checks and meets potential candidates before making
recommendations to the Board.
The appointee is briefed on the specific requirements for the
position, including expected expert knowledge.
Once a suitable candidate is identified, the GNRC recommends
their appointment to the Board for its approval.
Upon receiving the GNRC’s recommendation, the Board
considers the appointment and if approved, recommends the
same to the Shareholders for their approval.
Pursuant to the recommendation of the GNRC, the Board
at its Meeting held on 14th February, , subject to
approval of the Shareholders of the Company, considered
and approved:
•	Appointment of Ms. Padmasree Warrior as an Additional
Director (Independent and Non-Executive) with effect
from 17th May, to hold office as an Independent
Director for a term of consecutive years upto 16th May, (both days inclusive), not liable to retire by rotation;
•	Appointment of Mr. Ranjan Pant as an Additional Director
(Non-Executive and Non-Independent) with effect from
17th May, , liable to retire by rotation; and •	
Appointment of Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo as an Additional
Director
(Non-Executive
and
Non-Independent)
representing LIC with effect from 17th May, , liable
to retire by rotation.
Further, pursuant to the recommendation of the GNRC, the
Board at its Meeting held on 16th May, , subject to
approval of the Shareholders of the Company, considered and
approved:
•	Re-appointment of Mr. Haigreve Khaitan (DIN: )
as an Independent Director of the Company for a second
term of (five) consecutive years commencing from
8th August, to 7th August, (both days inclusive);
•	Re-appointment of Ms. Shikha Sharma (DIN: )
as an Independent Director of the Company for a second
term of (five) consecutive years commencing from
8th August, to 7th August, (both days inclusive);
•	Re-appointment of Dr. Anish Shah (DIN: )
as “Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer” of
the Company designated as “Group CEO and Managing
Director” with effect from 1st April, to 31st March, (both days inclusive); and
•	Re-appointment of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (DIN: )
as Whole-time Director of the Company designated as
“Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)” with
effect from 1st April, to 24th June, (both days
inclusive). Dr. Anish Shah
[MD and CEO]
Dr. Anish Shah is the Group CEO of the Mahindra Group and
the Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited, the
parent company of the Mahindra Group. His role as Group
CEO includes oversight of all Group businesses, which
employ ,+ Associates across industries and +
countries. His primary focus is on nurturing a purpose-driven
organization, establishing tech leadership in each industry
and value creation across businesses.
Under Dr. Anish’s leadership, the Group is reigniting value
creation with exponential growth across multiple businesses
and prudent capital allocation. Dr. Anish believes that
“purpose drives profits”. He is the custodian of Mahindra’s
Rise philosophy, of driving positive change in the lives of our
communities to enable them to Rise. And he is championing
the Mahindra Group’s efforts to play a leadership role in
Women Empowerment and Sustainability. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Prior to joining the Mahindra Group, Dr. Anish Shah was
President and CEO of GE Capital India from -,
where he led the transformation of the business, including
a turnaround of its SBI Card joint venture. His career at GE
spanned years, during which he held several leadership
positions at GE Capital’s US and global units. He has also led
Bank of America’s US Debit Products business and worked
with Bain & Company in Boston and Citibank in Mumbai.
In December , Dr. Anish Shah took charge as the
President of FICCI, one of India’s oldest and largest industry
bodies. He is also a member of the UK Investment Council,
Chair of the Automotive Governors Council (World Economic
Forum), co-chair of the India Alliance of CEOs for Climate
Change (World Economic Forum) and co-Chair of the IndiaAustralia CEO Council. Dr. Anish Shah has also been ranked
among the Best CEOs in Fortune India’s Best CEOs, .
Dr. Anish Shah holds a Ph.D. from Carnegie Mellon’s
Tepper School of Business and a Post-Graduate Diploma
in Management from the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad. His interests include sports (particularly Cricket
and American Football), reading and travel.
Dr. Anish has completed years of age.
Dr. Anish Shah is the Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra
Financial Services Limited and Mahindra Logistics Limited. He
is Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited and Non-Executive and Non‑Independent
Director of Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, Tech
Mahindra Limited, Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited,
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited, Tech Mahindra
Foundation and Director and President of Federation of
Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry (FICCI). Sr.
No. Name of the
Company/Entity Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Mahindra &
Mahindra Financial
Services Limited Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member Strategic Investment
Committee Member Investment Committee Member Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member . Mahindra Lifespace Nomination & Remuneration
Developers Limited Committee Member . Mahindra Holidays
& Resorts India
Limited Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member . Mahindra Logistics
Limited Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member . Mahindra Electric
Nomination & Remuneration
Automobile Limited Committee Member . Executive Board Member Organisation & Finance
Committee Member Dr Anish Shah, as Managing Director & CEO of the Company
serves as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of other
Subsidiary and Associate companies of the Company, in
accordance with fulfilment of his role of having full oversight
of all business Sectors of the Group. Audit Committee Member Membership Screening
Committee Member Board Committee Memberships: Steering Committee Member National Executive Committee Member Sr.
No. Name of the
Company/Entity Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee Member Sale of Assets Committee Member Risk Management Committee Member . Tech Mahindra
Limited Federation of
Indian Chambers
of Commerce and
Industry (FICCI) Dr. Anish Shah holds ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares in
the Company.
Dr. Anish Shah has not resigned as a Director from any listed
Company in the past three years and is not inter-se related
to any other Director or Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”)
of the Company.  Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
[Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer
(Auto and Farm Sector)]
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar has diverse experience across Packaged
Goods, Advertising, Media, Automotive and Farm Equipment.
He joined Mahindra in as Vice President – Marketing for
Automotive Sector. In , he was appointed as Executive
Vice President – Sales & Marketing and in , he was
given additional responsibility as the Managing Director
of Mahindra Renault in India. In , he became Chief of
Operations of the Automotive Sector and when Automotive
& Farm Equipment Sector (AFS) was formed in , he was
appointed as Chief Executive for the Automotive Division and
Member of the Group Executive Board.
In , Mr. Jejurikar joined the Farm Equipment Sector as
Chief Executive – Tractor & Farm Mechanisation and became
the Sector President in .
An MBA from S. P. Jain Institute of Management, Mr. Jejurikar
attended the Advanced Management Program at The Wharton
School, University of Pennsylvania and was awarded the
British Chevening Scholarship to study at the Manchester
Business School, UK.
Mr. Jejurikar serves on the Governing Council of S. P. Jain
Institute of Management and Research. He was a Member of
the Executive Committee of the Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers (SIAM) during the period -. He
has served as the President of the Tractor Manufacturers
Association (TMA) in India and has represented TMA as its
President on the CII (The Confederation of Indian Industry)
National Council in , . He has also been a Member
of the CII National Council on Agriculture. As a Member of
the CII National Committee on IT/ITeS, he Co-chaired the
Working Group for Agriculture.
He has been conferred with the prestigious ‘Autocar Person
of the Year - ’ award. The award recognizes individuals
who have contributed significantly to their company and
the industry. He was recognised for scripting the successful
turnaround of the Mahindra Automotive business leading to
gaining revenue market leadership and charting the ambitious
future-ready EV roadmap. He was also honoured by AsiaOne
magazine as the “Global Indian of the Year -”.
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar has completed years of age.
Mr. Jejurikar is the Chairman of Swaraj Engines Limited,
Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited, Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l., Mahindra USA Inc., Mitsubishi Mahindra
Agricultural Machinery Co. Ltd. and Automobili Pininfarina
GmbH. He is Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer
(Auto and Farm Sector) of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and
Director of Classic Legends Private Limited and Mahindra
Electric Automobile Limited. He is also an Independent
Director of Aliaxis SA, Belgium.
Board Committee Memberships:
Sr.
No. Name of the
Company Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Risk Management Committee Member . Swaraj Engines
Limited Nomination and Remuneration
Committee Member . Classic Legends
Private Limited Nomination and Remuneration
Committee Chairman . Mahindra Electric
Audit Committee
Automobile Limited Member Risk Committee Member Environmental, Social and
Member
Governance Matters Committee
. Mahindra Last Mile Nomination and Remuneration
Mobility Limited
Committee Member Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar holds ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares
in the Company.
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar has not resigned as a Director from any
listed Company in the past three years and is not inter-se
related to any other Director or KMP of the Company. Ms. Padmasree Warrior
[Non-Executive and Independent Director]
Ms. Padmasree Warrior is the Founder, President and CEO of
Fable, a mobile-first company that brings stories for everyone,
anywhere. Previously, Ms. Padma was the Chief Executive
Officer of NIO U.S., Chief Development Officer and Board
Member of NIO Inc., a manufacturer of Smart, Electric and
Autonomous Vehicles. In this role she scaled the company
from start-up to a successful IPO NYSE:NIO in years.
Prior to NIO, Ms. Warrior served as the Chief Technology &
Strategy Officer (CTSO) for Cisco until September, . In
this capacity, she was charged with aligning the company’s
technology and business strategy to business results. She
oversaw corporate Strategy, Mergers, Acquisitions, Venture MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Investments and Strategic Partnerships. Before that, she was
the SVP and GM for Cisco Enterprise segment and co-led
Cisco’s worldwide engineering organization. Prior to Cisco,
she was EVP and CTO at Motorola. Under her leadership,
Motorola was awarded the U.S. National Medal of
Technology. The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed
by Ms. Padmasree Warrior are aligned to those identified by
GNRC and complete details of the same are provided in the
“Matrix setting out the core skills / expertise / competence
of the Board of Directors” forming part of this Report. Ms. Padmasree Warrior has been widely recognized for her
creative, visionary leadership. Forbes has named her one of
“The World’s Most Powerful Women” for three years
running. In , The International Alliance for Women gave
her the World of Difference Award. In , Business Insider
called her one of the “ Most Influential Women in Wireless”.
The Wall Street Journal has called her one of “ Women to
Watch”. Fast Company included her among the “ Most
Creative People in Business”. The Economic Times listed her
as “the 11th Most Influential Global Indian”. Ms. Padmasree Warrior does not hold any Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company. Ms. Padmasree Warrior has served on government initiatives,
industry advisory boards as well as charitable and community
organizations. She received the United States Pan Asian
American Chamber of Commerce’s Excellence Award and
YWCA Metropolitan Chicago’s Outstanding Woman of
Achievement Award. In , she was inducted into the WITI
Hall of Fame.
Ms. Padmasree Warrior holds a Bachelor of Technology
degree in Chemical Engineering from the Indian Institute
of Technology in New Delhi, India and a Master of Science
degree in Chemical Engineering from Cornell University,
New York, U.S.
Ms. Warrior served as a Director on the Board of Microsoft
Inc. from - and currently serves as a Director on
the Board of Spotify Technology SA and as Director and CEO
of Fable Group Inc.
Ms. Padmasree Warrior has completed years of age.
Board Committee Memberships:
Sr.
No. Name of the
Company/Entity Name of the Committee(s) . Spotify Technology Audit Committee
SA Member . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Member
(appointed
w.e.f.
17th May,
) Strategic Investment
Committee
Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee Position
Held Ms. Padmasree Warrior left the Board of Directors of
Microsoft Inc. with effect from 7th December, after
deciding not to seek re-election. Ms. Warrior has not resigned
as a Director from any listed entity in the past three years
and is not inter-se related to any other Director or KMP of
the Company. Mr. Ranjan Pant
[Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director]
Mr. Ranjan Pant is a CEO Advisor and consultant specializing
in global strategy and change management. With a tenure
spanning over three decades, he has leveraged his expertise
across diverse industries and international conglomerates.
Education:
Mr. Ranjan Pant is a Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering
(Honours) from BITS, Pilani and MBA in Finance from The
Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Board Directorships:
Mr. Ranjan Pant has contributed as a Board Director and
Committee Member in leading corporations, including
HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited, DSP Blackrock
Investments Private Limited and Schneider Electric
Infrastructure Limited. Mr. Ranjan Pant is an Independent
Director and Chairman of Schneider Electric President
Systems Limited, Non-Executive and Non-Independent
Director of Mahindra Accelo Limited, Mahindra Auto Steel
Private Limited and a Director of Point RP Consulting
Private Limited (OPC).
Academic and Institutional Engagements:
•	
IIM Indore: Board of Governors and Chairman of the
Personnel Committee.
• Mahindra University, Hyderabad: Governing Body •	K C Mahindra Education Trust: Jury Panel Member for
Postgraduate Scholarships.
Mr. Ranjan Pant has completed years of age.
Board Committee Memberships:
Sr.
No. Name of the
Company Name of the Committee(s) . Mahindra Accelo
Limited Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Chairman . Schneider Electric
President Systems
Limited Audit Committee Chairman Stakeholders Relationship
Committee Chairman Risk Management Committee Chairman Nomination and Remuneration
Committee Member Strategic Investment
Committee Member
(appointed
w.e.f. 17th
May, ) Risk Management Committee Member
(appointed
w.e.f.
8th August,
) Career Highlights:
Mr. Ranjan Pant has Spearheaded the energy and utilities
practice and provided Strategic Advisory Services at Bain & Co.,
Management Consultants. He held the position of Director of
internal consulting, focusing on Operational Excellence and
Mergers & Acquisitions in General Electric Company.
Key Areas of Expertise:
•	
Strategic Planning: portfolio strategy, pricing-based
valuation and capital investment timing.
•	
Operational Management: post-merger integrations,
enhancing manufacturing productivity and accelerating
new product introductions.
•	Corporate Governance: orchestrating corporate venture
capital initiatives and managing conglomerate corporate
center roles.
•	Human Resources Strategy: Senior Leadership Transitions
and CEO Compensation Strategies.
•	
Technology and Innovation: Platform Business Models
and Artificial Intelligence Product Development. Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Position
Held The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed
by Mr. Ranjan Pant are aligned to those identified by GNRC
and complete details of the same are provided in the “Matrix
setting out the core skills / expertise / competence of the
Board of Directors” forming part of this Report.
Mr. Ranjan Pant does not hold any Ordinary (Equity) Shares
in the Company.
Mr. Ranjan Pant’s tenure as a Director of Schneider Electric
Infrastructure Limited ended on 21st May, . Mr. Pant has
not resigned as a Director from any listed entity in the past
three years. He is not inter-se related to any other Director
or KMP of the Company. Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo
[Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director
(Nominee of LIC)]
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo has taken charge as Managing Director of
Life Insurance Corporation of India (“LIC”) on 20th July, .
He joined the Corporation as Special Batch Direct Recruit
Officer in October, . He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in
History (Honors) from Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla.
He has a varied and rich marketing experience. He served the
Corporation in various roles as Zonal Manager (Central Zone),
Additional Director, Zonal Training Centre (Bhopal), Regional
Manager (P&IR), North Zone (Delhi). He was In-charge of
Bangalore – I and Shimla Divisions steering the Corporation
through a challenging climate and leading to consistent
growth of business under dynamic market conditions.
Wherever he has been posted, he fostered a culture of
human resource development and empowerment, resulting
in a highly motivated and skilled workforce, committed to the
Corporation’s mission and values.
As Chief (Marketing-SBA), he looked after the Marketing
portfolio of Senior Business Associates & Life Insurance
Corporation Associates as well, with a focus on revolutionizing
marketing activities and empowering them.
He likes to meet people and often motivates them by sharing
his experiences.
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo has completed years of age.
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo is the Managing Director of Life Insurance
Corporation of India (LIC) and also serves as a Director on the
Board of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of Bangladesh Limited. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Board Committee Memberships: matters in India across industries, be it for companies,
financial institutions and Boards of Directors. Sr.
No. Name of the
Company/Entity Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Life Insurance
Corporation of
India Executive Committee Member Investment Committee Member Audit Committee Special
Invitee Policyholders Protection
Committee Member Building Advisory Committee Member National Insurance
Academy, Pune Academic Council Member Governing Board Member . Insurance Institute
of India Council Member . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Strategic Investment
Committee Member
(appointed
w.e.f. 17th
May, ) . The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed by
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo are aligned to those identified by GNRC
and complete details of the same are provided in the “Matrix
setting out the core skills / expertise / competence of the
Board of Directors” forming part of this Report.
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo does not hold any Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company.
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo has not resigned as a Director from any
listed Company in the past three years and is not inter-se
related to any other Director or KMP of the Company. Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
[Independent Director]
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is the Partner of Khaitan & Co. He is
responsible for the Firm’s strategic growth and development.
Under his guidance, Khaitan & Co has grown to become
India’s largest full-service law firm and the most advanced
legal institution in the country.
With over years of professional experience, Mr. Haigreve
Khaitan has led some of the most high-profile and challenging As a strategic advisor, Mr. Khaitan is often brought onboard
to devise Innovative Commercial Solutions to solve complex
legal and regulatory matters, including Mergers and
Acquisitions, Restructurings and Insolvencies, Structured
Financing as well as Critical disputes, Governance challenges
and white-collar crime matters.
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan regularly participates in high-level
policy-making bodies, including recently as a Member of the
Competition Commission of India’s Committee for the Digital
Competition Act, a Member of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India’s Committee on Fair Market Conduct and a
Member of the Industry Standard Forum (FICCI, CII, ASSOCHAM)
for setting implementation standard for LODR provisions. Board Committee Memberships:
Name of the
Company Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee Chairman Governance, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee Member Sale of Assets Committee Member Audit Committee Member Risk Management Committee Member Stakeholders Relationship
Committee Chairman He has been consistently recommended by the world’s
leading accreditation bodies as one of the most prominent
lawyers in the country, describing him as an “outstanding
lawyer” who is “extremely good and very sharp when it
comes to large transactions”.
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan has been recognized as an “Eminent
Practitioner” by Chambers and Partners for Corporate M&A
and Private Equity and “Band Lawyer” for Private Wealth
Law. Legal ranked him in “Hall of Fame” for Corporate and
M&A and Recommended Lawyer for Private Client practice
and Private Equity and Investment Funds, Who’s Who Legal – Global Elite Thought Leader for M&A, recognized as
Elite practitioner by Asia law Leading Lawyers, recognized as
Market Leader for Banking and M&A by IFLR and A - List
lawyer by India Business Law Journal.
He has also received In- House Community Counsels Awards
as External Counsel of the Year , Asian Legal Business
as one of the top M&A lawyers in Asia and RSG India
Award for the Emerging Leaders of the Year .
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan has pursued LL.B. from Kolkata
University and has completed years of age.
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is an Independent Director of Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited, Reliance Industries Limited, Jio Platforms
Limited, CEAT Limited, JSW Steel Limited, Tech Mahindra
Limited, Borosil Renewables Limited, Dalmia Bharat Limited
and Director of New Democratic Electoral Trust, Laxman AG,
Interfloat Corporation and V S Trustee Private Limited. Mr. Haigreve Khaitan does not hold any Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company. Sr.
No. . Tech Mahindra
Limited Securities Allotment Committee Chairman . . . . Audit Committee Member Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee Member Investment Committee Member Borosil Renewables Audit Committee
Limited Member Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member Acquisition Oversight
Committee Member Securities Issue Committee Member Reliance Industries Audit Committee
Limited Member JSW Steel Limited Audit Committee Member Share Allotment Committee Member JSWSL ESOP Committee Member Audit Committee Member JIO Platforms
Limited The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed
by Mr. Khaitan are aligned to those identified by GNRC and
complete details of the same are provided in the “Matrix
setting out the core skills / expertise / competence of the
Board of Directors” forming part of this Report. Mr. Haigreve Khaitan ceased to be an Independent Director
of Inox Leisure Limited on 6th February, upon its
amalgamation with PVR Limited (re-named as PVR Inox
Limited).
He ceased to be an Independent Director of Torrent
Pharmaceuticals Limited and PVR Inox Limited with effect
from 1st April, and 10th February, respectively,
upon completion of his tenure. He has not resigned as a
Director from any listed entity in the past three years. He
is not inter-se related to any other Director or KMP of the
Company. Ms. Shikha Sharma
[Independent Director]
Ms. Shikha Sharma holds Post Graduate Diploma in
Management from IIM, Ahmedabad, Post Graduate Diploma
in Software Technology from National Center for Software
Technology and B.A. (Hons.) in Economics.
Ms. Shikha Sharma was the Managing Director & CEO of Axis
Bank, India’s third largest private sector bank, from June, to December, . During her tenure as Managing
Director & CEO, Axis Bank witnessed multiple growth in
the network, market capitalization & in consumer lending
business and transformed Axis Bank into a digital leader in
mobile banking and digital payments.
Ms. Shikha Sharma was the founder Managing Director &
CEO of ICICI Personal Financial Services from May, to
December, , during which she founded ICICI Bank’s retail
lending business. She was a founding team member of ICICI
Securities in joint venture with JP Morgan.
Ms. Shikha Sharma was the Managing Director and CEO of
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company from December, to June, during which she founded and scaled
the largest private life insurance company in India.
Ms. Shikha Sharma has deep understanding of business
through data and analytics and has ability to build businesses
on customer insight and tech execution as well as hire,
groom and develop strong leaders.
Ms. Shikha Sharma featured in the most powerful women
in Business by Fortune, Top women in finance by Finance
Asia and as Banker of the Year by Business Standard. She
has also received AIMA JRD Tata Corporate Leadership and
Outstanding Businesswoman of the Year by CNBC TV18
Awards. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Ms. Shikha Sharma has completed years of age.
Ms. Shikha Sharma is an Independent Director of Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Tata Consumer
Products Limited, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Limited, Mahindra
Electric Automobile Limited and Non-Executive and NonIndependent Director of Piramal Enterprises Limited.
She is an advisor to Piramal Enterprises Limited, Billionbrains
Garage Ventures Private Limited (“Groww Group”), Bahaar
Foundation - a unit of Akshati Charitable Trust, McKinsey &
Company Singapore Pte Ltd and a Member of the Board of
Governors of IIM, Lucknow. She is also a consultant to Google
India Digital Services Private Limited.
Board Committee Memberships: Sr.
No. Name of the
Company/Entity . Piramal Enterprises Risk Management Committee
Limited Chairperson Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee Chairperson Financial Services Approval
Committee Member . . Name of the Committee(s) Mahindra Electric
Nomination and Remuneration
Automobile Limited Committee IIM Lucknow Position
Held Chairperson Audit Committee Member Nomination Committee Chairperson Sr.
No. Name of the
Company/Entity Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Audit Committee Member Governance, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee Member Risk Management Committee Member Strategic Investment
Committee Member Investment Committee Chairperson Risk Management Committee Chairperson Nomination and Remuneration
Committee Member Ms. Shikha Sharma has resigned as a Director of Ambuja
Cements Limited on 16th September, . Further, she
ceased to be an Independent Director of Tata Coffee Limited
on 1st January, pursuant to its merger with Tata
Consumer Products Limited. Ms. Shikha Sharma is not interse related to any other Director or KMP of the Company. Nomination and Remuneration
Committee Chairperson H. Codes of Conduct Audit Committee Member Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee Member Risk Management Committee Member Risk Management Committee Chairperson Audit Committee Member . . . Tech Mahindra
Limited Tata Consumer
Products Limited Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories
Limited The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed by
Ms. Shikha Sharma are aligned to those identified by GNRC
and complete details of the same are provided in the “Matrix
setting out the core skills / expertise / competence of the
Board of Directors” forming part of this Report.
Ms. Shikha Sharma does not hold any Ordinary (Equity)
Shares in the Company. The Board of your Company has laid down two separate Codes
of Conduct (“Codes”), one for all the Board Members and the
other for Employees of the Company. These Codes have been
posted on the website of your Company and can be accessed
in the Governance section at the Web-link https://www.
mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. All
the Board Members and Senior Management Personnel have
affirmed compliance with these Codes. A declaration signed
by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer to this
effect is enclosed at the end of this Report.
The Code of Conduct for the Board Members of the Company
also includes Code for Independent Directors which is a guide
to professional conduct for Independent Directors, pursuant
to section () and Schedule IV of the Act. I. Codes of Conduct for Suppliers The Company has also developed “Supplier Code of Conduct”
to guide its Suppliers as to how to engage in ethical,
responsible and legal business practices in their operations
around the world. This Code is applicable to all ‘Suppliers’
i.e. domestic and international. Suppliers include suppliers,
service providers, vendors, traders, agents, consultants,
contractors, joint venture partners, third parties including
their employees, agents and other representatives, who have
a business relationship with and provide, sell, seek to sell,
any kind of goods or services to the Company. The Code
emphasises on the Suppliers of the Company to conduct
their business activities and deal on behalf of their company
with professionalism, honesty and integrity, as well as with
high moral and ethical standards. Such conduct shall be fair
and transparent and perceived to be as such by third parties. J. CEO/CFO Certiﬁcation
The Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Group
Chief Financial Officer of the Company have jointly provided
an annual certification on financial reporting and internal
controls to the Board and Audit Committee in terms of
Regulation () of the Listing Regulations and quarterly
certification on financial results while placing the financial
results before the Board and Audit Committee in terms of
Regulation () of the Listing Regulations. K. Induction and Familiarisation Programme
for Independent Directors
A newly appointed Independent Director is provided with
an appointment letter along with their roles, duties &
responsibilities and the Company’s Code of Conduct for
Directors, etc. as may be applicable to them.
Each newly appointed Independent Director is taken through
an induction and familiarisation programme including the
presentation and interactive session with the Managing
Director and CEO, Executive Director, other Functional
Heads on the Company’s manufacturing, marketing and
other important aspects. The Company Secretary briefs the
Director about their legal & regulatory responsibilities as a
Director. The programme also includes visit to the plant to
familiarise them with all facets of manufacturing.
Pursuant to Regulation () of the Listing Regulations,
the Company imparted various familiarisation programmes for its Directors including periodic review of Investments
of the Company at Strategic Investment Committee
Meetings, Regulatory updates, Industry Outlook, Business
Strategy at the Board Meetings and changes with respect
to the Companies Act, Taxation and other matters, Listing
Regulations, Framework for Related Party Transactions, etc.
at the Audit Committee Meetings, various Business Entity
Risks, etc. at the Risk Management Committee Meetings,
Products Launch and Showcase of New Vehicles, etc. The
details as required under Regulations and (1A) of
the Listing Regulations are available on the website of
your Company at the web link: https://www.mahindra.com/
sites/default/f iles/-/Familiarisation-Programmesconducted-in-FY--for-Independent-Non-ExecutiveDirectors-WebSite_0.pdf. L. B
 oard Conﬁrmation regarding Independence
of the Independent Directors
All the Independent Directors of the Company have given
declarations/disclosures under section () of the Act
and Regulation () of the Listing Regulations and have
confirmed that they fulfil the independence criteria as specified
under section () of the Act and Regulation of the
Listing Regulations and have also confirmed that they are not
aware of any circumstance or situation, which exists or may
be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their
ability to discharge their duties with an objective independent
judgement and without any external influence.
Further, the Board after taking these declarations/disclosures
on record and acknowledging the veracity of the same,
concluded that the Independent Directors are persons of
integrity and possess the relevant expertise and experience
to qualify as Independent Directors of the Company and are
Independent of the Management. M. Matrix setting out the core skills/
expertise/competence of the Board
of Directors
A chart/ matrix setting out the core skills/ expertise/
competencies identified by the Board of Directors in the
context of the Company’s businesses and sectors as required
for it to function effectively and those actually available with
the Board alongwith the names of Directors who have such
skills/expertise/competence, is given below: MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Sr.
No. Skills Particulars . Business Experience Established leadership skills in
strategic planning, succession planning,
driving change and long-term growth
and guiding the Company towards its
vision, mission and values.
Critically analysing complex and
detailed information and developing
innovative solutions and striking
a balance between agility and
consistency. . . Global business/ broad
international exposure
/ emerging markets
experience Financial Experience and
Risk Oversight Global mindset and staying updated
on global market opportunities,
experience in driving business success
in markets around the world with an
understanding of diverse business
environments, economic conditions,
sensitivity to cultural diversity and
adaptability. Sr.
No. Skills Particulars . Technology and
Innovation An appreciation of emerging trends
in product design and development,
research, disruptions in technology
and in business models. . . Governance and
Regulatory oversight Sales and Marketing
Exposure The Company uses various financial
metrics to measure its performance.
Accurate Financial Reporting and
Robust Auditing are critical to its
success. Skills Devise systems for compliance with
a variety of regulatory requirements,
reviewing compliance and governance
practices for a long-term sustainable
growth of the Company and protecting
stakeholders’ interest.
Ability in developing strategies to
increase market share through
innovation, build better brand
experience for customers, improve
prospective customer engagement
levels and help establish active
customers become loyal brand
followers. .	
To have an understanding of
Finance and Financial Reporting
Processes; * Financial
Experience and
Risk Oversight Technology and
Innovation Governance
and Regulatory
oversight Sales and
Marketing
Exposure Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
(upto 19th December, ) √ — √ — √ √ Mr. Haigreve Khaitan √ √ √ √ √ — Ms. Shikha Sharma √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. CP Gurnani (upto 19th
December, ) √ √ √ √ √ √ Ms. Nisaba Godrej √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. Muthiah Murugappan √ √ √ √ √ √ Ms. Padmasree Warrior* √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. Ranjan Pant* √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo* √ — — — — √ Appointed with effect from 17th May, . During the year under review, none of the Independent
Directors of the Company had resigned before the expiry of
their respective tenure(s). Skills
Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience Global business/
broad international
exposure/emerging
markets experience N. Resignation of Independent Director(s) .	
To understand and oversee
various risks facing the Company
and ensure that appropriate
policies and procedures are in
place to effectively manage risk. Business
Experience Business
Experience Name of Directors The Company expects its Directors :- Name of Directors Financial
Experience and
Risk Oversight Technology and
Innovation Governance
and Regulatory
oversight Sales and
Marketing
Exposure Subsequent to the year end, Dr. Vishakha N. Desai ceased to
be an Independent Director of your Company with effect from
1st May, consequent to completion of second term as an
Independent Director upon she attaining the age of years.
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta would cease to be an Independent
Director of the Company with effect from 7th August, ,
upon completion of his second term. O. Lead Independent Director Mr. Anand G. Mahindra √ √ √ √ √ √ Dr. Anish Shah √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar √ √ √ √ √ √ Dr. Vishakha N. Desai (upto
30th April, ) √ √ √ √ √ √ As a Lead Independent Director, Mr. Mehta has been entrusted,
inter alia, with the following roles and responsibilities: Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta √ √ √ — √ √ Mr. T. N. Manoharan √ √ √ √ √ — (i)	
Provide leadership to the Independent Directors
and liaise between the Chairperson of the Board
and Independent Directors without inhibiting direct
communication between them; Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Independent Director and Chairman
of Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee
has been appointed as the Lead Independent Director with
effect from 1st April, . (ii)	Ensure Board effectiveness to maintain high-quality
governance of the Company and the effective
functioning of the Board;
(iii)	
Convene exclusive Meeting(s) of Independent
Directors, set agenda, preside over the meetings of
the Independent Directors and provide feedback to the
Chairperson / Board of Directors after such Meetings;
(iv)	
Preside over Meetings of the Board at which the
Chairperson is not present;
(v)	Identify critical issues for the Board to deal with and
assist the Board in achieving consensus on important
issues;
(vi)	
Communicate to the Chairman and Management, as
appropriate, any decisions reached, suggestions, views
or concerns expressed by Independent Directors at
their Meetings or outside of the Board Meetings;
(vii)	Play the role of a facilitator outside the Boardroom,
especially, on contentious issues;
(viii)	Provide candid feedback to MD & CEO and CFO post
Meeting of Independent Directors; and
(ix)	Take the lead role, along with Chairman in assessing
the performance evaluation of the Board and that of
Individual Director. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E P. Senior Management II. REMUNERATION TO DIRECTORS Particulars of Senior Management Personnel (“SMP”) and
changes therein since the close of the previous financial year: A. Remuneration Policy A)	Particulars of SMP as of 1st April, :
Sr.
No Name of the SMP of
the Company Designation . Vijay R Nakra President - Automotive Division . Hemant Sikka President - Farm Equipment Sector . R. Velusamy President - Automotive Technology and
Product Development . Ruzbeh Irani President - Group HR . Vinod Sahay President - Aerospace & Defence and
Chief Purchase Officer (AFS) . Manoj Bhat^ President & Group Chief Financial Officer . Narayan Shankar Company Secretary Amit Kumar Sinha* President - Group Strategy .
* Ceased to be SMP during the year. ^	Mr. Manoj Bhat will cease to be the Chief Financial Officer of the Company
designated as “Group CFO” and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and
Senior Management Personnel with effect from close of 16th May, , on
account of his transition as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of
Mahindra Holidays and Resorts India Limited with effect from 17th May, . B)	Additions to SMP during FY -:
Sr.
No Name of the SMP of the
Company Designation . K N Vaidyanathan EVP - CMS & Group Chief Internal
Auditor . Naveen Raju General Counsel & EVP – Group Legal . Mohit Kapoor EVP – Group Chief Technology Officer . Asha Kharga Chief Customer and Brand Officer . Puneet Renjhen EVP – Partnership & Alliances . Abanti Sankaranarayanan Chief Group Public Affairs Officer . Amarjyoti Barua# EVP – Group Strategy #	Mr. Amarjyoti Barua will serve as the Chief Financial Officer and Key Managerial
Personnel of the Company, designated as “President & Group CFO” with effect
from 17th May, . Your Company has a well-defined Policy for Remuneration of
the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other Employees.
This Policy is available on the website of the Company and can
be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link: https://
www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents.
The Board while deciding the basis for determining the
compensation, both fixed and variable to the Non-Executive
Directors, takes into consideration various factors such as
Director’s participation in Board and Committee Meetings
during the year, other responsibilities undertaken, such as
Membership or Chairmanship of Committees, time spent in
carrying out other duties, role and functions as envisaged in
Schedule IV of the Act and Listing Regulations and such other
factors as the GNRC deems fit.
The elements of remuneration package of Executive Directors
include salary, benefits, stock options, provident fund, etc.
and is decided based on the individual performance as well
as performance of the Company, inflation, prevailing industry
trends and benchmarks. The Non-Executive Directors are paid
remuneration in the form of sitting fees for attending the
meetings of the Board of Directors or any Committee thereof,
as approved by the Board of Directors and Commission.
Based on the Shareholders’ approval, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra,
as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company is entitled to
Remuneration (by way of monthly payment) and Commission
apart from sitting fees for attending the Meetings of the
Board of Directors or any Committee thereof as approved
by the Board of Directors for Non-Executive Directors of the
Company and also Reimbursements and Benefits as per the
Company’s Policy with effect from 12th November, . B. Remuneration to Non-Executive Directors
for the year ended 31st March, Pursuant to the approval granted by the Members of the
Company at the 69th AGM held on 7th August, , the eligible
Non-Executive Directors are paid commission upto a maximum
of % of the net profits of the Company for each financial
year, as computed in the manner laid down in section of
the Act or any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s)
thereof or Rs. crores in the aggregate, whichever is lower;
provided that none of such Directors shall, in any Financial
Year individually receive a portion of such remuneration more
than one quarter percent of the net profits of the Company.
Further, based on approval of the Shareholders of the Company
at the 75th AGM held on 6th August, , Mr. Anand G.
Mahindra, Chairman (Non-Executive Director) of the Company was paid a fixed Commission of Rs. . crores for the year
ended 31st March, .
During the year under review, the following Non-Executive
Directors were paid a commission of Rs. lakhs (provided
for in the accounts for the year ended 31st March, ),
distributed amongst the Directors as follows: Name of Directors Commission for the year
ended 31st March, ,
paid during the year
under review
(Rs. In Lakhs) Mr. Haigreve Khaitan .## Ms. Shikha Sharma . Mr. CP Gurnani ^
(upto 19th December, ) Nil Ms. Nisaba Godrej . Mr. Muthiah Murugappan . Name of Directors Commission for the year
ended 31st March, ,
paid during the year
under review
(Rs. In Lakhs) Mr. Anand G. Mahindra . #	Commission was paid to LIC. Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta . Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
(upto 30th April, ) . ##	Commission was paid to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a
Partner. Mr. T.N. Manoharan . Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma
(Nominee of LIC)
(upto 19th December, ) .# ^	
Mr. CP Gurnani, Managing Director & CEO of Tech Mahindra Limited upto
19th December, , had waived his right to receive sitting fees for attending
the Meetings of the Board of Directors or any other remuneration payable
to the Non‑Executive Directors of the Company from 1st April, to
19th December, , as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Directors of
the Company. A commission of Rs. . lakhs has been provided as payable to the Non-Executive Directors in the accounts for the year
under review. Non-Executive Directors are also paid sitting fees of Rs. ,, each for every Meeting of the Board and Rs.
, each for every Committee Meeting other than Stakeholders Relationship Committee. The sitting fees paid for every
Meeting of Stakeholders Relationship Committee is Rs. , each for Non‑Executive Director. Additionally, Non-Executive
Directors are also reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties.
The sitting fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the commission payable to them for the year ended 31st March, along
with their respective shareholdings in your Company are as under: Name of Directors Sitting Fees paid for the Board
and Committee Meetings
held during the year ended
31st March, (Rs. in Lakhs) Commission for the year ended
31st March, , provided as
payable in the accounts of the
Company for the year under review
(Rs. in Lakhs) No. of Ordinary (Equity)
Shares held as on
31st March, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra . . ,, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta . . , Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
(upto 30th April, ) . . , Mr. T.N. Manoharan . . Nil Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (Nominee of LIC)
(upto 19th December, ) . .# Nil .## . Nil . . Nil Mr. CP Gurnani^ (upto December, ) Nil Nil , Ms. Nisaba Godrej . . Nil Mr. Muthiah Murugappan . . Nil Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
th #
Commission is payable to LIC.
## Sitting fees were paid to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a Partner.
^	Mr. CP Gurnani, Managing Director & CEO of Tech Mahindra Limited upto 19th December, , had waived his right to receive sitting fees for attending the
Meetings of the Board of Directors or any other remuneration payable to the Non‑Executive Directors of the Company from 1st April, to 19th December,
, as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Directors of the Company. The Non-Executive Directors were not granted Stock Options during the year under review. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E C. 
Remuneration paid/payable
31st March, to the Whole‑time Directors for the year ended Remuneration to the Whole-time Directors is fixed by GNRC basis the approval of the Board of Directors and Shareholders at a
General Meeting. Following is the remuneration paid/payable to the Whole-time Directors during the year ended 31st March, :
(Rs. in Lakhs)
Whole Time Director(s) Dr. Anish Shah (Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer) Salary Company’s
Contribution
to Funds1 Perquisites
and
Allowances ,.# . .@ Contract Period
Total
,. Deputy Managing Director and Group Chief Financial
Officer from 1st April, to 1st April, and
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer from
2nd April, to 31st March, KPIs for Incentive Payment for
Executive Directors % of the Performance Pay annually, payable to Dr. Anish Shah, is based on the Group Corporate Office Scorecard
comprising of Consolidated Sector Balance Scorecards, Return on Equity, Earnings Per Share, MCARES, Group Level ESG
Performance Index and such other parameters as may be decided by the Company from time to time. ESG parameters for determining
Performance Pay • Greening ourselves • Decarbonizing Our Industry • Nanhi Kali • Women Empowerment • Diversity & Inclusion • Governance • Global ESG leadership The remuneration of Mr. Anand G. Mahindra was recommended
by GNRC and subsequently approved by the Board of Directors
and thereafter by the Shareholders of the Company at the
75th AGM held on 6th August, .
Further, the Shareholders of the Company at the 77th AGM held
on 4th August, pursuant to the provisions of Regulation
()(ca) of the Listing Regulations, accorded their approval
for payment of remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra for
the Financial Year -, being an amount exceeding fifty percent of the total annual remuneration payable to all the
Non-Executive Directors of the Company for the Financial
Year -.
Following
is
the
remuneration
paid/payable
to
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra as Non-Executive Chairman during the
year ended 31st March, :
(Rs. in Lakhs) Director(s) Remuneration Commission Total # Mr. Anand G. Mahindra * In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post
Retirement Benefit Scheme of the Company.
# Excludes Sitting Fees. E. The Stock Option granted to Directors, the period over which accrued and over which
exercisable are as under:
Options granted in
November, under Scheme Vesting period Exercise period Exercise price Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer ,
, On the date of vesting or
within the exercise period
specified for each vesting.
The maximum exercise
period is years from the
date of vesting. Rs. per share Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) Three instalments in
November , & Name of Directors (alongwith their Designation) to whom Stock
Options have been granted Note: All relevant information on Stock Options granted to Directors in previous Financial Years is accessible in the Company’s earlier Annual Report(s). (Rs. in Lakhs)
Whole Time Director(s) D. Remuneration paid/payable to Mr. Anand
G. Mahindra, Non‑Executive Chairman
for the year ended 31st March, Contract Period Salary Company’s
Contribution
to Funds1 Perquisites
and
Allowances Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director
and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) ,.## . .@@ KPIs for Incentive Payment for
Executive Directors % of the Performance Pay annually, payable to Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, is based on the Business Scorecard comprising
of Consolidated Revenue, Consolidated Profit Before Tax, Consolidated Free Cash Flow, Return on Capital Employed,
MCARES, MCAPS and such other parameters as may be decided by the Company from time to time. ESG parameters for determining
Performance Pay • Reduction in Scope + emissions (Auto & Farm Sector) • Reduction in Scope emissions (Product in Use) (Auto & Farm Sector) • Reduction in Scope emissions (Supply Chain) (Auto & Farm Sector) Total ,. 1st April, to 31st March, Designated as
Executive Director (Automotive and Farm Sectors)
upto 14th March, and re-designated as
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
from 15th March, . Aggregate of the Company’s contributions to Superannuation Fund and Provident Fund.
#
Includes Performance pay of Rs. . lakhs.
## Includes Performance pay of Rs. . lakhs.
@
Includes Rs. . lakhs being perquisite value of ESOPs of the Company exercised during the year.
@@ Includes Rs. . lakhs being perquisite value of ESOPs of the Company exercised during the year. Notes:
a.
Notice period applicable to each of the Whole-time Directors is six months.
b.
Employee Stock Options and Performance Pay are the only components of remuneration that are performance-linked. All other components are fixed.
c.
There is no separate provision for payment of Severance Fees. III. RISK MANAGEMENT IV. COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Your Company has a well-defined risk management
framework in place. The risk management framework works
at various levels across the Company. These levels form the
strategic defence cover of the Company’s risk management.
The Company has a robust organisational structure for
managing and reporting on risks. The Board Committees play a crucial role in the governance
structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal
with specific areas / activities as mandated by applicable
regulations; which concern the Company and need a closer
review. Majority of the Members constituting the Committees
are Independent Directors and each Committee is guided by
its Charter or Terms of Reference, which provide for the
scope, powers, duties and responsibilities. Your Company has constituted a Risk Management
Committee consisting of Board Members which is authorised
to monitor and review Risk Management plan and risk
certificate. The Committee is also empowered, inter alia, to
review and recommend to the Board the modifications to the
Risk Management Policy.
Further, the Board has constituted a Corporate Risk Council
comprising of the Senior Executives including Chief Risk
Officer of the Company. The terms of reference of the Council
comprise review of Risks and Risk Management Policy at
periodic intervals.
The Risk Management process has been established across
the Company and is designed to identify, assess and frame
a response to threats that affect the achievement of its
objectives. Further, it is embedded across all the major
functions and revolves around the goals and objectives of
the Company. The Chairperson of the respective Committee informs the
Board about the summary of the discussions held in the
respective Committee Meetings. The minutes of the Meeting
of all Committees are placed before the Board for review.
During the year, all recommendations of the Committees
of the Board which were mandatorily required have been
accepted by the Board.
There are Six Board constituted Committees as on
31st March, , which comprise of Five Statutory
Committees and One Non-statutory Committee (Voluntary
Committee), details of which are as follows: MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Board Committees as on 31st March, : The Board
Governance, Nomination
and Remuneration
Committee Stakeholders Relationship
Committee Mr. T.N. Manoharan
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Ms. Nisaba Godrej Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai*
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee Risk Management
Committee Strategic Investment
Committee** Dr. Vishakha N. Desai*
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Anish Shah
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Dr. Anish Shah
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Ms. Shikha Sharma Audit Committee Chairperson Members * Ceased to be a Director and as such, a Chairperson/Member w.e.f 1st May, .
** Voluntary Committee A. Audit Committee
This Committee comprises of the following Directors viz.
Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee), Ms. Shikha
Sharma, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta and Mr. Haigreve Khaitan.
Subsequent to the year end, the Board at its Meeting held on
16th May, , re-constituted the Audit Committee with effect
from 8th August, and inducted Mr. Muthiah Murugappan as
a Member in place of Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta upon completion
of his tenure as an Independent Director on 7th August, .
Post the re-constitution with effect from 8th August, , the
Audit Committee would comprise of four Directors viz. Mr. T. N.
Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee), Ms. Shikha Sharma,
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan and Mr. Muthiah Murugappan.
All the Members of the Committee are Independent
Directors and possess strong accounting and financial
management knowledge.
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary
of the Committee.
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The terms of reference of this Committee are very wide and
are in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by
the Act and Part C of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations. Besides having access to all the required information from
within the Company, the Committee can obtain external
professional advice whenever required. The Committee acts
as a link between the Statutory and the Internal Auditors
and the Board of Directors of the Company. It is authorised
to, inter alia, review and monitor the Auditor’s independence
and performance, scope and effectiveness of audit process,
oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process and
the disclosure of its financial information, review with the
management the quarterly and annual financial statements
and auditor’s report before submission to the Board for
approval, select and establish accounting policies, review
Reports of the Statutory and the Internal Auditors and
meet with them to discuss their findings, suggestions and
other related matters, their independence on quarterly
basis, review of Non-Audit Services rendered by the
Statutory Auditors, to consider and grant prior approval for
the related party transactions including material related
party transactions in terms of Regulation read with
Regulation ()(zc) and Regulation ()(zb) of the Listing
Regulations, granting omnibus approvals for related party
transactions subject to fulfilment of certain conditions
and quarterly reviews thereof, approve transaction(s) of
the Company or any Subsidiaries of the Company on one hand and any other person or entity on the other hand, the
purpose and effect of which is to benefit a related party of
the Company or any Subsidiaries of the Company. report submitted by monitoring agency for the utilization
of proceeds of preferential issue or qualified institutions
placement in addition to public issue or rights issue, etc. The Committee is also authorised to scrutinise intercorporate loans and investments, valuation of undertakings
or assets of the Company, review the risk assessment and
minimisation procedures, evaluate internal financial controls
and risk management systems, monitor end use of the funds
raised through public offers and related matters, review the
utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/ investment by
the Company in the subsidiary companies exceeding Rs. crore or % of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever
is lower including existing loans/ advances/ investments and
review compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, (“PIT Regulations”) at least once in a financial year and
verify that the systems for internal control are adequate
and are operating effectively. The terms of reference are
also in line with the regulatory requirements mandated in
the Act and Listing Regulations. The Audit Committee has been granted powers as prescribed
under Regulation ()(c) of the Listing Regulations and
reviews all the information as prescribed in Part C of
Schedule II of the Listing Regulations. The Committee also
reviews the Report on compliance under Code of Conduct
for Prevention of Insider Trading adopted by the Company
pursuant to PIT Regulations. Further, Compliance Reports
under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, and
Whistle-blower Policy are also placed before the Committee.
The Meetings of the Audit Committee are also attended by
the Chairman, the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer, Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector),
Group Chief Financial Officer, the Statutory Auditors, the
Group Chief Internal Auditor, the Controller of Accounts, the
Chief Financial Officer of Auto and Farm Sectors and the
Company Secretary. The Committee is also empowered to, inter alia, recommend
the remuneration payable to the Statutory Auditors, availing
of such other permitted services from the Auditors and
to recommend a change in the Auditors, if felt necessary.
Further, the Committee is empowered to recommend to
the Board, the appointment of Chief Financial Officer,
the term of appointment and remuneration of the Cost
Auditor, Internal Auditor, etc., review the functioning of
the Whistle-blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism, to consider
and comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of
schemes involving merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on
the listed entity and its shareholders. The Committee also
reviews Financial Statements and Investments of unlisted
subsidiary companies, Management Discussion & Analysis
of financial condition and results of operations, review the As required under the Secretarial Standard on General
Meetings, the Chairman of the Committee or, in his absence,
any other Member of the Committee authorised by him on
his behalf shall attend the General Meeting of the Company.
Mr. T. N. Manoharan, Chairman of the Audit Committee, was
virtually present at the 77th AGM of the Company held
through Video Conferencing facility on 4th August, to address the Shareholders’ queries pertaining to Annual
Accounts of the Company.
Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are also
passed by the Members. Subsequently, these Circular
Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after the date
on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by the
Members. Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met Seven times during the year under review on 26th May, , 3rd August, , 9th November, ,
2nd February, , 13th February, , 8th March, and 18th March, . The gap between two Meetings did not exceed
one hundred and twenty days. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Activities of the Committee during the year Audit Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Held during
the Year Attended  %  % 
 % % 26th
May, 3rd
August, 9th
November, 2nd
February, 13th
February, 8th
March, 18th
March, Physical Hybrid Hybrid VC Hybrid VC Physical Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman)     Ms. Shikha Sharma  Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan 
 
 
 
 % of Attendance at a Meeting % % % Name of the Members Attended through Video Conference  Leave of Absence  % % % % of attendance
of a Member % Attended in-person Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31st March, Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Reviewed Quarterly, Half yearly and Annual Standalone and Consolidated Financials of the Company prepared in accordance with the Indian
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as specified under the Companies Act, , read with the relevant rules thereunder Q / A Held discussions with the Statutory Auditors regarding the Company’s financial statements, scope of their Reports and sought the
auditors’ judgment on the quality and applicability of the accounting principles, the reasonableness of significant judgments, the
adequacy of disclosures in the financial statements and other matters as the Committee deemed necessary Q Reviewed and approved the Audit Fees and Fees payable for other services rendered by the Statutory Auditors during the year under
review A Considered and made recommendation on the Remuneration payable to the Chief Internal Auditor and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company A Reviewed the performance of the Statutory Auditors and Chief Internal Auditor A / E Reviewed with independent auditors, the nature and scope of the audit alongwith the review of audit engagement to ascertain
adequacy and appropriateness E Reviewed the Management Discussion and Analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of the Company A Reviewed the Directors’ Responsibility Statement after making enquiries from the Operating Management A Reviewed the internal audit findings, the action taken status and other matters concerning the internal audit function of the Company
and the Group and reviewed the performance of the Chief Internal Auditor Q Reviewed the utilisation of loans and/ or advances from/investment by the Company in the subsidiaries exceeding Rs. crores or
% of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower Q Reviewed and granted prior approval for transactions with related parties including material related party transactions in terms of
Regulation read with Regulation ()(zc) and Regulation ()(zb) of the Listing Regulations, approved specific arrangements/
transactions, granted omnibus approval for transactions proposed to be entered with related parties, within the maximum limit per
transaction and maximum limit in the aggregate, granted omnibus approval to cover unforeseen related party transactions and reviewed
related party transactions entered into by the Company for previous quarter pursuant to the prior and omnibus approvals accorded by
the Committee and recommended to the Board for onward recommendation to the Shareholders for approval as and when necessary Q / A Considered and approved revised process of taking approvals of related party transactions and reporting thereof E Frequency Reviewed the risk assessment and minimisation procedures to ensure that executive Management controls risk through means of a
properly defined framework and risk management systems, etc. Q Reviewed the Audited financial statements, in particular the investments made by all unlisted subsidiary companies and all significant
transactions and arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary companies A Approved the other services proposed to be rendered by the Statutory Auditors, directly or indirectly A / E Noted the Material Subsidiary(ies) of the Company A Monitored and reviewed the mechanism to track the compliances under PIT Regulations and also reviewed the compliance updates in
addition to the investigations of the Whistle-blower Complaints received alongwith Report under the Sexual Harassment of Women at
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, Q Considered and approved the appointment of Cost Auditors, remuneration payable to them and the Cost Audit Report and recommended
the same to the Board A Held meeting with the Representatives of the Credit Rating Agencies which have rated the Non-Convertible Debentures issued by the
Company A Reviewed compliance of PIT Regulations and Systems for Internal Controls for prevention of Insider Trading A Considered and approved amendments to the Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party Transactions of the Company to
make it more elaborate specifically in view of the change in the coverage of the RPTs with effect from 1st April, E Considered, approved and recommended to the Board appointment of Chief Investor Relations Officer E Considered, approved and recommended to the Board Revised Risk Management Policy (Enterprise Risk Management Policy) of the
Company E Noted the NFRA Circular with respect to instances of non-compliance with IND-AS on Accounting Policies for measurement of revenue
from contracts with customers and trade receivables E Considered, approved and recommended to the Board amendment in the ‘Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider Trading in Securities
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited’ and ‘Policy on Insider Trading’, pursuant to amendments to the PIT Regulations E Considered, approved and recommended to the Board amendments in ‘Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information’, ‘Indicative Guidelines for Determining Materiality Thresholds for Closure of Trading Window’,
‘Policy for Determination of Materiality for Disclosure of Events or Information’ and ‘Indicative Guidelines’ framed thereunder, pursuant
to amendments to the Listing Regulations E Considered and approved consolidation of various Subsidiaries with the Company by way of Scheme of Merger by Absorption between
them and the Company and their respective Shareholders, including commenting on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of Scheme
involving Merger, etc. on the Listed Entity and its Shareholders E Considered, approved and recommended to the Board change in Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company – accepting the
resignation of Mr. Manoj Bhat as Chief Financial Officer of the Company designated as ‘Group Chief Financial Officer’ w.e.f. close of
16th May, and appointment of Mr. Amarjyoti Barua, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company to be designated as ‘Group Chief
Financial Officer' w.e.f. 17th May, and remuneration payable to him, including indicative value of ESOPs to be granted to him E Frequency A Annually Q Quarterly E Event-Based MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E B. Governance, Nomination and Remuneration
Committee appointment and removal and carrying out evaluation of
every Director’s performance.
The Committee has also formulated the criteria for
determining
qualifications,
positive
attributes
and
independence of a Director and recommended to the Board
a Policy relating to the remuneration for the Directors, Key
Managerial Personnel and other Employees. This policy has
also been posted on the website of the Company and can
be accessed in the Governance section at the Web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments. All Committee Members are Independent Directors including
the Chairman. The Members are Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
(Chairman of the Committee), Ms. Shikha Sharma, Mr. Haigreve
Khaitan and Ms. Nisaba Godrej. Mr. Anand G. Mahindra,
Chairman, Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer and Mr. Ruzbeh Irani, President - Group HR
are permanent invitees to the Committee.
Subsequent to the year end, the Board at its Meeting held
on 16th May, , re-constituted the Committee with effect
from 8th August, and inducted Mr. T. N. Manoharan as
a Member and Chairman in place of Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
upon completion of his tenure as an Independent Director on
7th August, . Post the re-constitution with effect from 8th
August, , the Committee would comprise of four Directors
viz. Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman of the Committee), Ms.
Shikha Sharma, Mr. Haigreve Khaitan and Ms. Nisaba Godrej. The Committee has undertaken a structured and
comprehensive succession planning program over a period
of time and has carried out a rigorous review for an orderly
Succession to the Board and the Senior Management.
The Committee carries out a separate exercise to evaluate
the performance of Individual Directors. Feedback is sought
by way of structured questionnaires covering various aspects
of the Board’s functioning such as adequacy of time spent on
strategic issues, effectiveness of Governance practices, setting
corporate culture and values, execution and performance of
specific duties, obligations and governance. The performance
evaluation is carried out based on the responses received
from the Directors. Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The Committee has been vested with the authority to,
inter alia, recommend nominations for Board Membership,
develop and recommend Policies with respect to composition
of the Board commensurate with the size, nature of the
business and operations of the Company, establish criteria
for selection to the Board with respect to the competencies,
qualifications, experience, track record, integrity, establish
Director retirement policies and appropriate succession plans
and determine overall compensation policies of the Company. The performance evaluation of Independent Directors was
based on various criteria, inter alia, including attendance
at Board and Committee Meetings, skill, experience, ability
to challenge views of others in a constructive manner,
knowledge acquired with regard to the Company’s business,
understanding of industry and global trends, ability to
maintain independence, etc. During the year under review,
the Committee ascertained and reconfirmed that the
deployment of “questionnaire” as a methodology is effective
for evaluation of performance of Board and Committees and
Individual Directors. The Committee also administers the Company’s Employee
Stock Option Schemes formulated from time to time including
“Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option
Scheme – ”, “Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees
Stock Option Scheme – ” and takes appropriate
decisions in terms of the concerned Scheme(s).
The terms of reference of this Committee are aligned with
the Listing Regulations and the Act. Where the services rendered by a Director are in professional
capacity, the Committee is also empowered to opine whether
such Director possesses requisite qualification for the
practice of the profession. As per section () of the Act
and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, the Chairman
of the Committee or in his absence, any other Member of
the Committee authorised by him in this behalf shall attend
the General Meetings of the Company. The Chairman of the
Committee, Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta was virtually present
at the 77th AGM of the Company held through Video
Conferencing facility on 4th August, . The scope of the Committee inter alia includes review of
market practices and deciding on remuneration packages
applicable to the Chairman, Managing Director, the Executive
Director(s), Presidents and other Members of Senior
Management as may be decided from time to time (including
the Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary).
In addition to the above, the Committee’s role includes
identifying persons who are qualified to become Directors and
who may be appointed in Senior Management in accordance
with the criteria laid down, recommending to the Board their Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met six times during the year under review on 25th May, , 3rd August, , 9th November, ,
2nd February, , 13th February, and 18th March, . The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members 25th
May, 3rd
August, 9th
November, 2nd
February, 13th
February, 18th
March, VC Held during
the Year Attended % of attendance
of a Member Physical Hybrid Hybrid Hybrid Physical Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta (Chairman)      % Mr. Haigreve Khaitan      %  %  % Ms. Shikha Sharma  Ms. Nisaba Godrej  % of attendance at a Meeting
Attended through Video Conference  %  Leave of Absence %  % % % % Attended in-person Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Report for the year ended 31st March, :
Activities of the Committee during the year
Finalisation of the process of evaluation, amending the evaluation questionnaires and carrying out evaluation of the performance of
the Board, its Committees, Directors, Chairman, Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director and CEO (Auto and
Farm Sector) of the Company and mapping of chart / matrix of core skill/ expertise/ competencies of the Board
Recommending to the Board revision in Basic Salary and Performance Pay to be paid to the Wholetime Directors for onward
recommendation to the Shareholders Frequency
A E Recommending to the Board change in the definition and coverage of ‘Senior Management’ and remuneration of new persons forming
part of Senior Management E Recommending to the Board amendment to the Policy on Appointment of Directors and Senior Management and Succession Planning
for Orderly Succession to the Board and the Senior Management E Discussion on Senior Management Succession Plan E Update on Retention Data of employees in certain categories to whom Stock Options have been granted E Grant of Stock Options to the Eligible Employees under the Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme – ,
cancellation of Stock Options and permitting vesting of unvested Stock Options upon Early Retirement in certain cases and discussion
on provisions of the Scheme A / E Recommend to the Board revision in Remuneration to be paid to Senior Management A / E Approving revision in Remuneration to be paid to Wholetime Directors and their Performance Pay for FY - A Approving retirement age of existing Wholetime Directors E Noting of withdrawal of the nomination of Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (DIN: ), Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the
Company by Life Insurance Corporation of India with effect from 20th December, E Noting of Resignation of Mr. CP Gurnani (DIN: ) as Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company with effect from
20th December, E Discussion on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) E Accepting the resignation of Mr. Manoj Bhat as Chief Financial Officer of the Company designated as ‘Group Chief Financial Officer’ w.e.f.
close of 16th May, E MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Activities of the Committee during the year
Recommending to the Audit Committee and Board, the appointment of Mr. Amarjyoti Barua, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company to
be designated as ‘Group Chief Financial Officer’ w.e.f. 17th May, and remuneration payable to him Frequency
E Recommending to the Board appointment of Ms. Padmasree Warrior (DIN: ) as an Additional Director (Independent and
Non-Executive) of the Company with effect from 17th May, upto the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and
subject to approval of Members of the Company, to hold office as an Independent and Non-Executive Director of the Company for a term
of (five) consecutive years with effect from 17th May, to 16th May, (both days inclusive) E Recommending to the Board appointment of Mr. Ranjan Pant (DIN: ) as an Additional Director (Non-Executive and
Non-Independent) of the Company with effect from 17th May, to hold office up to the date of the ensuing Annual General Meeting
of the Company and thereafter, subject to approval of the Members of the Company at the ensuing Annual General Meeting to hold office
as a Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director, liable to retire by rotation E Recommending to the Board appointment of Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo (DIN: ) as an Additional Director (Non-Executive and
Non-Independent) of the Company representing Life Insurance Corporation of India with effect from 17th May, to hold office up to
the date of the ensuing Annual General Meeting of the Company and thereafter, subject to approval of the Members of the Company at
the ensuing Annual General Meeting to hold office as a Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director, liable to retire by rotation E Discussion on re-appointment of Wholetime Directors and their remuneration E Composition and Attendance (in brief): % * % Independence Members Meetings Attendance * Dr. Vishakha N. Desai ceased to be a Member of the Committee with effect from 1st May, , upon completion of her tenure as an Independent
Director of the Company. The Committee met four times during the year under review on 25th May, , 3rd August, , 9th November, and
13th February, . The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Stakeholders Relationship Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members Frequency A Annually E Event Based C. Stakeholders Relationship Committee 25th 3rd 9th May, August, November, 13th
February, Held during
the Year Attended % of attendance
of a Member Physical Hybrid Physical Physical Mr. Haigreve Khaitan (Chairman)     % Mr. Anand G. Mahindra     % Dr. Vishakha N. Desai    % Mr. Muthiah Murugappan     % % of attendance at a meeting % % % % The Company’s Stakeholders Relationship Committee functions under the Chairmanship of Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, Independent
Director. The other Members of the Stakeholders Relationship Committee are Mr. Muthiah Murugappan (Non-Executive Independent Director), Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (Non-Executive – Non-Independent Director) and Dr. Vishakha N. Desai (NonExecutive - Independent Director). Seventy five percent of the Committee comprises of Independent Directors. Dr. Vishakha
N. Desai ceased to be a Member of the Committee with effect from 1st May, , upon completion of her tenure as an
Independent Director of the Company. Stakeholders Relationship Committee Report for the year ended 31st March, Mr. Narayan Shankar, Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer of the Company. Activities of the Committee during the year Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The Committee meets, as and when required, to inter alia, deal with matters relating to issue of Letter of Confirmation in case of
loss of share certificates, issue of new share certificates (including for transfer to Investor Education & Protection Fund as per
the provisions of the Act and Rules framed thereunder), resolve the grievances of security holders of the Company including
complaints related to dematerialisation of shares, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, etc., review of
measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders, review of adherence to the service standards adopted by
the Company in respect of services being rendered by the Registrar & Transfer Agent, review of various measures and initiatives
taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/demand
drafts/annual reports/statutory notices by the Shareholders of the Company. With a view to expedite the process of transmission,
necessary authority has been delegated to certain officers of the Company. The Committee is, inter alia, authorised to approve the
requests for transmission of shares and issue of duplicate share certificates.
The role and terms of reference of the Committee cover the areas as contemplated under Regulation read with Part D of
Schedule II of the Listing Regulations and Section of the Act, as applicable, besides other terms as referred by the Board
of Directors.
Further, the Investor Relations team presents investor engagement plans/ initiatives, movement in shareholdings and ownership
structure to the Committee.
As per section () of the Act and the Secretarial Standard on General Meetings, the Chairman of the Committee or, in his
absence, any other Member of the Committee authorised by him in this behalf shall attend the General Meetings of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Haigreve Khaitan was virtually present at the 77th AGM of the Company held through Video
Conferencing facility on 4th August, .
Apart from the Meeting(s), urgent business (including approvals for issue of Letter of Confirmation in case of loss of share
certificates) was transacted through Circular Resolution(s). Subsequently, these Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after
the date on which the Circular Resolution(s) is/are passed by the Members. Attended through Video Conference  Leave of Absence  Attended in-person Frequency Reviewed compliances related to Share Transfer Agent activities of KFin Technologies Limited and Investor Related Compliances Q Review of Investor Grievances Q Approved issuance of new share certificate for transfer of shares to Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF), approved transfer
of shares to IEPF and related matters A Reviewed measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by Shareholders P Reviewed various initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely receipt of
dividend warrants/ annual reports/ statutory notices by the shareholders of the Company P Reviewed adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various services being rendered by the Registrar
& Share Transfer Agent (RTA) P Noted release of shares from Mahindra & Mahindra Limited - Unclaimed Securities Suspense Account P Noted status of Legal Case(s) pertaining to Shares Q Took note of status of various accounts relating to payment of investor dues Q Took note of the annual audit report submitted by the independent auditors on the annual internal audit conducted on the RTA
operations as mandated by SEBI A Approved issue of Letter of Confirmation in case of loss of share certificates E Status of Debentures and Commercial Papers Q Frequency A Annually Q Quarterly P Periodically E Event Based MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Trend of Complaints and Number of Shareholders during last years: Mr. Muthiah Murugappan as the Chairman with effect from
8th August, in place of Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta upon
completion of his tenure as an Independent Director on
7th August, . Post the re-constitution with effect from
8th August, , the CSR Committee would comprise of
four Directors viz. Mr. Muthiah Murugappan (Chairman of
the Committee), Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Dr. Anish Shah and
Ms. Padmasree Warrior. Financial Year Key Terms of Reference of the Committee: Details of Shareholders’/ Investors’ Complaints: During the Financial Year ended March, , complaints were received from Shareholders, all of which
have been attended/resolved to the satisfaction of the
Shareholders. As of date, there are no pending complaints
pertaining to the year under review.
st - - - - - Total No. of
Complaints received
and resolved
No. of Shareholders
as on 31st March ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, - - - - - Non receipt of Dividend Non receipt of share certificate Others Total No. of shareholders Number of Shareholders Number of Complaints Your Company has taken adequate measures to resolve
the complaints of the shareholders. In order to expedite
the process of redressal of shareholders’ grievances, the
Company has introduced an escalation matrix, which can
be accessed at https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
policies-and-documents. D. Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai, Independent Director was the
Chairperson of the Committee as on 31st March, .
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Dr. Anish Shah, Mr. Vikram Singh
Mehta and Mr. Muthiah Murugappan are the other Members
of the Committee. Out of the total number of Members of
the Committee, three Members are Independent Directors.
Subsequent to year end, Dr. Vishakha N. Desai ceased to
be a Director of the Company and as such a Chairperson
of the Committee with effect from 1st May, and the
Board at its Meeting held on 18th & 19th March, ,
appointed Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta as the Chairman of the
Committee with effect from 1st May, . Further, the
Board at its Meeting held on 16th May, , re-constituted
the CSR Committee by inducting Ms. Padmasree Warrior as
a Member with effect from 17th May, and appointed The Committee has been constituted by the Board with
powers, inter alia, to make contributions to Charitable and/
or CSR projects or programs to be implemented directly
through its ESOPs (Employee Social Options) programme
or through implementing partners which include a company
established under section of the Act or a registered public
trust or a registered society exempted or registered and
approved under Income Tax Act, established by the
company or company established under section of the
Act or a registered trust or a registered society established
by the Central Government or State Government or any
entity established under an Act of Parliament or a State
legislature or a registered public trust or a registered
society exempted or registered and approved and having
an established track record of at least three years in
undertaking similar activities, of at least two percent of the
Company’s average net profits during the three immediately
preceding Financial Years in pursuance of its CSR Policy for
the Company’s CSR Initiatives.
The scope of functions of the Committee inter alia includes
formulation and recommendation to the Board, an Annual
Action Plan in pursuance of CSR Policy of the Company
including CSR projects or programmes that are approved
to be undertaken, manner of execution of such projects
or programmes, modalities of utilisation of funds and
implementation schedule(s), monitoring and reporting
mechanism, need and impact assessment, if any, for the
projects undertaken by the Company, recommendation of the
amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities
as enumerated in Schedule VII of the Act and also referred
to in the CSR Policy of the Company, as also to monitor the
CSR Policy from time to time, etc.
Pursuant to the commitment of the Company towards
sustainable business practices and the increasing adaptability
of Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) framework by
all companies, the terms of reference of the CSR Committee,
inter alia, also include the following:
•	Recommend to the Board, the Company’s overall general
strategy with respect to Environment, Social and
Governance (“ESG”) matters; •	Ensure ESG and social considerations in the Company’s
business operations and build a culture of Sustainable
Business; Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and
Economic Responsibilities of Business’;
•	Ensure in concurrence with the Risk Management
Committee that the ESG risks pertaining to the Company
are minimal and effectively managed. •	Ensure compliance with the Sustainability initiatives by
Regulators including but not limited to Business Responsibility
Report/ Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
and recommend the same to the Board; The CSR Policy of your Company, in alignment with the
CSR provisions is available on the website of the Company
and can be accessed in the Governance section at the
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-anddocuments. •	Monitor and ensure the effective implementation of
ESG policies of the Company and recommend changes/
deletions/ additions/ new ESG/ Sustainability policies to
the Board for its approval; Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are also
passed by the Members. Subsequently, these Circular
Resolution(s) are noted in the Meeting held after the date on
which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by the Members. •	
Ensure compliance in relation to the policies created
for or linked to the key principles of the ‘National Composition and Attendance (in brief): % * % Independence Members Meetings Attendance * Dr. Vishakha N. Desai ceased to be a Director of the Company and as such a Chairperson of the Committee with effect from 1st May, . The Committee met times during the year under review on 25th May, , 3rd August, and 9th November, .
The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Name of the Members 25th
May, 3rd
August, 9th
November, Physical Hybrid Physical Held
during the
Year Attended % of attendance
of a Member Dr. Vishakha N. Desai (Chairperson)*   % Mr. Anand G. Mahindra    % Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta    % Dr. Anish Shah    % % Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
% of attendance at a Meeting
Attended through Video Conference  Leave of Absence * Ceased to be a Director and Chairperson w.e.f 1st May, .  Attended in-person    % % % MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E CSR Committee Report for the year ended 31st March, :
Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency The Committee met twice during the year under review on 3rd August, and 9th November, . The attendance at the
Meetings was as under: Risk Management Committee Attendance Considered and recommended to the Board, Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report and Corporate Social Responsibility
Report of the Company for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report of the Company A Noted the Status of the Impact Assessment Studies for the Projects qualifying for Impact Assessment for the Financial Year P Reviewed the Company’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Performance, the projects and programs under Corporate Social
Responsibility Projects of the Company, status of utilization of fund(s) by the Implementing Agencies for the Financial Year P Considered and approved revised CSR Budget for the Financial Year and amendment to the Annual Action Plan for the Financial Year
and recommended the same to the Board A / E 3rd
August, 9th
November, Considered and approved amendments in the CSR Policy and the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Policy of the Company
(Renamed as “Business Responsibility & Sustainability Policy”) and recommended the same to the Board A / E Committee Meeting Dates and Mode Noted the initiatives taken by the Company under ‘Environment’ – vertical of Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) E Noted the changes in provisions governing Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (“BRSR") pursuant to amendments to
Listing Regulations E Frequency A Annually P Periodically E Event based Name of the Members .	Formulation of a detailed risk management policy which
shall include: Regulation of the Listing Regulations mandates
constitution of the Risk Management Committee. The
Committee is required to lay down the procedures to inform
the Board about the risk assessment and minimisation
procedures and the Board shall be responsible for framing,
implementing and monitoring the Risk Management Plan of
the Company. Accordingly, the Board has constituted a Risk
Management Committee (‘RMC’). The Committee is chaired by
Mr. T. N. Manoharan. The other Members of the Committee
are Dr. Anish Shah, Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Mr. Vikram Singh
Mehta, Ms. Shikha Sharma and Mr. Haigreve Khaitan. a.	Framework for identification of internal and external
risks specifically faced by the listed entity, in particular
including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber
security risks or any other risk as may be determined
by RMC;
b.	Measures for risk mitigation including systems and
processes for internal control of identified risks; and
c. Business continuity plan. .	Ensuring that appropriate methodology, processes and
systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks
associated with the business of the Company. Subsequent to the year end, the Board at its Meeting held
on 16th May, , re-constituted the Risk Management
Committee by inducting Mr. Ranjan Pant as a Member with
effect from 8th August, in place of Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
upon completion of his tenure as an Independent Director on
7th August, . Post the re-constitution with effect from
8th August, , the Risk Management Committee would
comprise of six Directors viz. Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman of
the Committee), Dr. Anish Shah, Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Ms. Shikha
Sharma, Mr. Haigreve Khaitan and Mr. Ranjan Pant. .	Monitoring and overseeing implementation of the risk
management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of
risk management systems.
.	Periodically reviewing the risk management policy (at
least once in two years) including by considering the
changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity.
.	Keeping the Board of Directors informed about the
nature and content of its discussions, recommendations
and actions to be taken. Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
The terms of the reference of RMC are wide and are in line
with the regulatory requirements of the Listing Regulations
and inter alia include: .	Reviewing the appointment, removal and terms of
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if any). Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance Held
during the
Year Attended % of attendance
of a Member Hybrid Hybrid Mr. T. N. Manoharan (Chairman)   % Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta   % Dr. Anish Shah   % Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar   % Ms. Shikha Sharma % Mr. Haigreve Khaitan % % of attendance at a Meeting E. Risk Management Committee Attended through Video Conference  Leave of Absence    % % Attended in-person Risk Management Committee Report for the year ended 31st March, Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Reviewed the Risk Certificate covering risk management measures and controls and made recommendation to the Audit Committee
and the Board P Considered, approved and recommended to the Audit Committee Revised Risk Management Policy (Enterprise Risk Management
Policy) of the Company for onward recommendation to the Board E Reviewed the Risk Management Report, Risk Mitigation Measures as prescribed under the Risk Management Policy alongwith Extreme
Risks their impact, likelihood and exposure and presented the same to the Audit Committee and the Board P Frequency P Periodically E Event based F. Strategic Investment Committee (A voluntary initiative of your Company)
The Strategic Investment Committee is a voluntary Committee of your Company and Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman
of the Committee. Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta, Mr. T. N. Manoharan and Ms. Shikha Sharma are other Members of the Committee.
Apart from the Committee Members, the Committee Meetings are also invariably attended by the other Directors as Invitees.
During the year, Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma ceased to be the Member of the Committee with effect from 20th December, pursuant to his resignation as a Director of the Company on account of withdrawal of his nomination by LIC upon him attaining
the age of years. Subsequent to the year end, the Board at its Meeting held on 16th May, inducted Ms. Padmasree
Warrior, Mr. Ranjan Pant and Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo as Members of the Committee with effect from 17th May, .
Key Terms of Reference of the Committee:
This Committee is constituted by the Board with powers, inter alia, to evaluate, scrutinize and consider all proposals for funding
including but not limited to making Investment in, providing Loan to, providing Guarantee for any Subsidiary, Associate, Joint
Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate, business acquisitions where Cumulative exposure in such entity
is above the specified threshold and make appropriate recommendations to the Board, Operation reviews for such Subsidiary,
Associate, Joint Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate, Evaluate, scrutinise and approve disinvestments
(total or partial) / exit from such Subsidiary, Associate, Joint Venture, Trust, Entity, any other company or Body Corporate,
approve Merger or De-Merger or Arrangement within Group companies as specified, approve entry into new industries (greenfield,
acquisition of majority stake or path to majority), etc.
Apart from the Meetings, Circular Resolution(s) are also passed by the Members. Subsequently, these Resolution(s) are noted in
the Meeting held after the date on which the Circular Resolution(s) are passed by the Members. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Composition and Attendance (in brief): % % Independence Members Meetings Attendance The Committee met five times during the year under review on 25th May, , 3rd August, , 9th November, ,
13th February, and 19th March, . The attendance at the Meetings was as under: Strategic Investment Committee Attendance
Committee Meeting Dates and Mode 25th
May, Physical 3rd
August, Hybrid 9th
November, Physical 13th
February, VC 19th
March, Physical Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (Chairman)     Mr. T. N. Manoharan     Ms. Shikha Sharma  Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta  Name of the Members Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma* * %  Leave of Absence   Attended % of
attendance
of a Member  %  %  %  % %  
 N.A. N.A. % % % %  % of attendance at a Meeting
Attended through Video Conference  Held
during the
Year/Tenure Strategic Investment Committee Report for the year ended March, st Activities of the Committee during the year Frequency Considered, approved and granted in-principle approval for dilution of stake in the Subsidiaries of the Company E Noted business updates from various subsidiaries/Investments, Extension of date of Winding-Up, extension of timeline for authorising
individuals to approved disbursals, etc. Q / E Considered, approved and recommended to the Board to grant an in-principle approval for the proposed consolidation of certain
Subsidiaries with the Company through any appropriate means including by way of Scheme of Arrangement between them and the
Company and their respective Shareholders E Considered, approved and recommended to the Board significant investments/funding to be made by the Company and taking note
of outstanding debt, if any Q / E Frequency Q Quarterly E Event based V. SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Regulation of the Listing Regulations defines a “material
subsidiary” to mean a subsidiary, whose income or net worth
exceeds ten percent of the consolidated income or net
worth respectively, of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in
the immediately preceding accounting year.
Under this definition, Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services
Limited (MMFSL) (Listed) is a material subsidiary of the
Company, formed on 1st January, at Mumbai. Further,
M/s. Deloitte Haskins & Sells, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm
Registration No. 117365W) and M/s. Mukund M. Chitale & Co.,
Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 106655W) In addition to the above, Regulation of the Listing
Regulations requires that at least one Independent Director
on the Board of Directors of the listed entity shall be a
Director on the Board of Directors of an unlisted material
subsidiary, whether incorporated in India or not. For the
purpose of this provision, material subsidiary means a
subsidiary, whose income or net worth exceeds twenty
percent of the consolidated income or net worth respectively,
of the listed entity and its subsidiaries in the immediately
preceding accounting year. In addition to the above and as required under the Listing
Regulations, the Company is in compliance with the
Accounting Standards on related party disclosures, has been
submitting disclosures of related party transactions to the
Stock Exchanges in the prescribed format within prescribed
timelines and also publishing it on the website of the
Company. There is no Subsidiary which falls under this definition of
unlisted material subsidiary for the financial year ended
31st March, . The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS“) as per the
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as
amended and notified under section of the Act and
other relevant provisions of the Act. The other requirements of Regulation of the Listing
Regulations with regard to Corporate Governance requirements
for Subsidiary Companies have been complied with. VI. DISCLOSURES
A. Policy
for
subsidiaries Attended in-person Ceased to be a Director w.e.f 20th December, . determining ‘material’ Your Company has formulated a Policy for determining
‘Material’ Subsidiaries as defined in Regulation of the Listing
Regulations. This Policy has been posted on the website of the
Company and can be accessed in the Governance section at the
Web-link https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policiesand-documents. B. Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with
Related Party Transactions Your Company has formulated a Policy on Materiality of and
Dealing with Related Party Transactions (“RPT Policy”) which
specifies the manner of entering into related party transactions.
During the year, the RPT Policy was reviewed and amended
with a view to make it more elaborate specifically in view of
the changes in the coverage of the related party transactions
with effect from 1st April, . are the Joint Statutory Auditors of MMFSL, who have
completed their tenure of consecutive years and would
cease to be the Joint Statutory Auditors of MMFSL at the
conclusion of the 34th AGM of MMFSL, to be held in the year
. The Joint Statutory Auditors hold a valid peer review
certificate as prescribed under the Listing Regulations. The updated RPT Policy has been posted on the website of
the Company and can be accessed in the Governance section
at the Web-link https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
policies-and-documents. The subsidiaries of the Company function independently, with
an adequately empowered Board of Directors and adequate
resources. For more effective governance, the minutes of
Board Meetings of unlisted subsidiaries of the Company are
placed before the Board of Directors of the Company for
their review at every quarterly Meeting. During the Financial Year -, there were no materially
significant transactions or arrangements entered into between
the Company and its Promoters, Directors or their Relatives
or the Management, Subsidiaries, etc. that may have potential
conflict with the interests of the Company at large. Further,
details of related party transactions are presented in Note
No. to Annual Accounts in the Annual Report. C. Disclosure of Transactions with Related
Parties D. 
Disclosure of Accounting Treatment in
preparation of Financial Statements E. 
Code for Prevention of Insider Trading
Practices
The Company has formulated and adopted the ‘Code of
Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished
Price Sensitive Information’ which, inter alia, includes Policy for
determination of ‘Legitimate Purpose’ and ‘Code of Conduct
for Prevention of Insider Trading in Securities of Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited’ (“M&M Code of Conduct”) in compliance
with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition
of Insider Trading) Regulations, (“PIT Regulations”).
M&M Code of Conduct has been formulated to regulate,
monitor and ensure reporting of trading by the Designated
Persons and their immediate relatives towards achieving
compliance with the PIT Regulations and is designed to
maintain the highest ethical standards of trading in Securities
of the Company by persons to whom it is applicable. The
Code lays down Guidelines, which advise them on procedures
to be followed and disclosures to be made, while dealing
with securities of the Company and caution them of the
consequences of violations. F. Policy and procedure for inquiry in case of leak/suspected leak of Unpublished Price
Sensitive Information The Company has formulated the ‘Policy and procedure
for inquiry in case of leak / suspected leak of Unpublished
Price Sensitive Information’ (’UPSI’). The Policy is formulated
to maintain ethical standards in dealing with sensitive
information of the Company by persons who have access to
UPSI. The rationale of the Policy is to strengthen the internal
control systems to ensure that UPSI is not communicated
to any person except in accordance with the Insider Trading
Regulations. The Policy also provides an investigation
procedure in case of leak/suspected leak of UPSI. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E G. Whistle-blower Policy VII. MEANS OF COMMUNICATION The Vigil Mechanism as envisaged in the Act and the
Rules prescribed thereunder and the Listing Regulations is
implemented through the Code of Conduct, Whistle-blower and
other Governance Policies and the Vigil Mechanism frameworks. The Company recognizes the importance of two-way
communication with Shareholders and of giving a balanced
reporting of results and progress. Full and timely disclosure
of information regarding the Company’s financial position
and performance is an important part of your Company’s
corporate governance ethos. The Company has taken adequate measures to create
awareness amongst its employees on the Code of Conduct
and Governance Policies through regular face to face/
E‑learning sessions. The Company has provided a third-party
whistleblowing helpline service through an external service
provider. The Ethics helpline service includes toll free number,
web portal access and e-mail facilities. This helpline serves
as platform under vigil mechanism for all stakeholders and
associates to raise any concerns on unethical behaviour and
provided by One Trust, a Global service provider.
• Helpline No: The toll-free helpline number is available in English and
Multiple Languages.
•	Url: https://ethics.mahindra.com/ is available in Multiple
Languages.
Direct complaints can also be raised with the Chairman of
the Audit Committee through the third-party web portal
at the link mentioned above or by sending an email to
chairpersonofauditcommittee@mahindra.com or by sending a
letter to the below address:
Chairperson of the Audit Committee,
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
P. K. Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai – .
The Whistle-blower Policy has an established reporting
mechanism for Stakeholders to report concerns about
unethical behaviour, actual or suspected fraud, or violation
of the Code, including insider trading violations and reporting
instances of leak of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information
by the employees. Under the Vigil Mechanism, the employees
are encouraged to voice their concerns and all stakeholders
and associates have been provided access to the Audit
Committee through the Chairperson. No personnel have been
denied access to the Audit Committee. The Policy provides
adequate safeguards against victimization of persons who use
the mechanism.
The Whistle-blower Policy was updated during the year, the
details of which may be referred to in the Board’s Report.
During the course of the year, the Vigil framework and
systems for timely and conclusive resolution of compliance
related complaints have been standardized and further
strengthened.
The Whistle-blower Policy of the Company is available on
the website of the Company and can be accessed in the
Governance section at the Web-link https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. Your Company follows a robust process of communicating
with its stakeholders, security holders and investors through
multiple channels of communications such as dissemination
of information on the website of the Stock Exchanges,
Press Releases, the Annual Reports and uploading relevant
information on its website. Financial Results: The unaudited quarterly results are announced within fortyfive days of the close of each quarter, other than the last
quarter. The audited annual results are announced within
sixty days from the end of the financial year as required
under the Listing Regulations. The aforesaid financial results
are announced to the Stock Exchanges within the statutory
time period from the conclusion of the Board Meeting(s) at
which these are considered and approved. Other Information: Your Company discloses to the Stock Exchanges, all
information required to be disclosed under Regulation read with Part ‘A’ and Part ‘B’ of Schedule III of the Listing
Regulations including material information having a bearing
on the performance/ operations of the Company and
other price sensitive information. All information is filed
electronically on the online portal of BSE Limited – Corporate
Compliance & Listing Centre (BSE Listing Centre) and on
the online portals of National Stock Exchange of India
Limited – NSE’s Electronic Application Processing System
(NEAPS). The information to the Stock Exchanges located
outside India is filed through electronic means or other
permissible means. Analyst/Institutional Investors Presentations The Company hosts calls with institutional investors/analyst
post quarterly/half-yearly and the audited financial results
are announced and on request. Presentations are also made
to international and domestic institutional investors and
analysts. These presentations and other disclosures which
are required to be disseminated are filed electronically with
the Stock Exchanges as well as uploaded on the Company’s
website viz.: https://www.mahindra.com and as per the
Archival Policy of the Company, would be hosted on the
website for a minimum period of five years from the date of
respective disclosures. In addition to the above, the Company
also uploads transcripts of post earnings/quarterly calls and
Audio Visual recordings on the website of the Company. The details of Investors/Analyst interactions held during the year under review are as follows:
Investors/Analyst Interactions - FY -
Particulars One-on-one/
Group
Interactions* Conferences/
Non-Deal
Roadshows Company
Events # Keynote address
at Investor
Forums by Senior
Management Total Number of Meetings
Number of Hours spent** . . *
**
# includes 1x1 physical/virtual, group physical/virtual, Plant/R&D centre visit, new product launch event, Dealer visit/test drive, specific events arranged by the Company.
Total hours = Average budgeted time slot of mins per interaction except for Company-driven events.
includes quarterly earnings calls/analyst meet, specific events arranged by the Company. The Annual Report of the Company, the quarterly/half-yearly
and the audited financial statements and the official news
releases of the Company are also disseminated on the
Company’s website. The quarterly, half-yearly and yearly
results are also published in Business Standard and Sakal
which are national and local dailies respectively. These are
not sent individually to the Shareholders. FAQs for the Shareholders The Investor Relations page of the Company’s website
provides more than Frequently Asked Questions on
various topics related to transfers and transmissions of
shares, dematerialisation, nomination, change of address,
loss of share certificates, dividend and sub-division of share
certificates. In addition, various downloadable forms required
to be executed by the Shareholders have also been provided
on the website of the Company viz. https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/reports. Investor Services Web-based Query Redressal System Members may utilise the facility extended by the Registrar
and Transfer Agent for redressal of queries, by visiting
https://kprism.kfintech.com.
Investors can submit their query in the option provided on
the above website, which would generate a reference number.
For accessing the status / response to the query submitted,
the grievance reference number can be used at the option
“Track your query” at the left-hand corner of above website.
Investors can continue to put an additional query, if any,
relating to the grievance till they get a satisfactory reply.
Investors can provide their feedback on the services provided
by the Company and its Registrar and Transfer Agent by filling
the Shareholder Satisfaction Survey form available in Investor
Relations page on website of the Company at the web link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/reports. KPRISM Mobile service application by KFintech Members are requested to note that KFin Technologies Limited
(KFintech) has a mobile application - KPRISM and a website
https://kprism.kfintech.com for online service to Members.
Members can download the mobile application from play store,
register themselves (one time) for availing host of services viz.,
view of consolidated portfolio serviced by KFintech, Dividend
status, request for change of address, change/update Bank
Mandate. Through the Mobile app, members can download
Annual Reports, standard forms and keep track of upcoming
General Meetings and dividend disbursement.
In addition, Members can also visit the Investor Service
Center (ISC) webpage, https://kprism.kfintech.com and get
benefitted from the list of services that can be executed
from the page like raising or tracking a query, upload tax
exemptions forms, view the Demat / Remat request, check
dividend status and download required ISR forms and check
KYC status for Physical Folios.
The Members may visit the link https://kprism.kfintech.com/
to download the mobile application. VIII. GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Pursuant to General Circular No. / issued by
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) dated 5th May, read together with MCA General Circular Nos. &
/ dated 8th April, and 13th April, respectively and MCA General Circular No. / dated
25th September, , the companies whose AGMs are due
in the Year are allowed to conduct their AGM through
video conferencing (VC) or other audio visual means
(OAVM) on or before 30th September, . Accordingly,
your Company will be conducting the 78th AGM through
VC/OAVM facility. The Members can join the AGM in the VC/
OAVM mode minutes before the scheduled time of the
commencement of the Meeting by following the procedure
mentioned in the Notice of AGM and this mode will be
available throughout the proceedings of the AGM. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E In addition to conducting the AGM through VC/OAVM, the
Company would also be providing one-way live webcast of
the proceedings of the 78th AGM. Members who are entitled
to participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of AGM
by logging on the e-meetings website of KFintech at https://
emeetings.kfintech.com using their secure login credentials.
During the live AGM, Members may post their queries in
the message box provided on the screen or may submit
questions in advance on the email ID of the Company
investors@mahindra.com.
In case of any query and/or help, in respect of attending
AGM through VC/OAVM, Members may Visit https://emeetings.
kfintech.com (KFintech Website) or contact at investors@
mahindra.com or Mr. Premkumar Maruturi, Senior Manager
- Corporate Registry, KFintech at Selenium, Tower B,
Plot No. -, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Hyderabad, Telangana – or at the email ID evoting@
kfintech.com or on phone No.: - or call KFintech’s toll free No.: -- for any further
clarifications.
. Annual General Meeting
Date
:
31st July, Day :
Wednesday
Time
:
: p.m. (IST)
Venue :	Meeting through VC/OAVM
th .	List of all Credit Ratings obtained by the Company along with revisions for the FY - The credit ratings obtained by the Company along with revisions, if any, thereto during the Financial Year -, for all
the debt instruments, fixed deposit programme, any scheme or proposal of the Company involving mobilisation of funds, in
India or abroad are given below: Date of Book Closure and Dividend Payment Date Book Closure for Dividend will be from Saturday,
6th July, to Wednesday, 31st July, , both days
inclusive and the Dividend would be paid/dispatched
after 31st July, . Your Company’s Ordinary (Equity) Shares are listed on BSE Limited (BSE) and National Stock Exchange of India Limited
(NSE). The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) of your Company are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and are also
admitted for trading on International Order Book (IOB) of the London Stock Exchange. The requisite listing fees have been
paid in full to all these Stock Exchanges. CARE CRISIL ICRA India Ratings & Research Non-Convertible Debentures – CRISIL AAA/Stable [ICRA] AAA (Stable) IND AAA/Stable Bank Facilities – Long Term CARE AAA; Stable CRISIL AAA/Stable [ICRA] AAA (Stable) IND AAA/Stable Bank Facilities – Short Term CARE A1+ CRISIL A1+ [ICRA] A1+ IND A1+ Commercial Paper (CP) – CRISIL A1+ – – The above ratings have been assigned/ affirmed/re-affirmed by the Credit Rating Agencies for the financial year ended
31st March .
. Corporate Identity Number: L65990MH1945PLC004558 . Registered Office Address
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – . . Stock Price Data: .	Listing of Ordinary (Equity) Shares, Debentures on Stock Exchanges and Stock Code Equity Shares The Company’s privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) are listed on the Debt Segment of BSE. Ordinary (Equity) Shares and GDRs:
Name and Address of the
Exchanges Type of Security/
Scrip Code BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street, Fort,
Mumbai – . Ordinary (Equity)
Shares/ National Stock Exchange of India
Limited
Exchange Plaza, C-, Block G,
Bandra-Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai – . Ordinary (Equity)
Shares/M&M Bourse de Luxembourg
Society de la Bourse de Luxembourg,
Societe Anonyme/R.C.B. ,
B.P. , L-, Luxembourg. Global Depository
Receipts (GDRs) London Stock Exchange Plc,
, Paternoster Square,
London – EC4M 7LS. GDRs/MHID Month Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs)
International
Securities
Identification
Number (ISIN) INE101A01026 USY541641194 Rating(s) Instrument Details . Financial Year of the Company The financial year covers the period from 1st April to
31st March.
. BSE Limited National Stock Exchange
of India Limited GDRs GDRs Luxembourg Stock
Exchange London Stock Exchange High Low High Low High* Low* High Low Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. US$ US$ US$ US$ April, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . May, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . June, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . July, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . August, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . During the year under review, NCDs having ISINs:
INE101A08096 and INE101A08104 were redeemed on
20th April, and 24th April, respectively upon
Maturity. September, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . October, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . November, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . Further, NCDs having ISIN: INE101A08112 were
redeemed on 8th June, (prior to Maturity) pursuant
to Put Option exercised by all the Debenture holders to
redeem the NCDs as per the terms and conditions of the
issue. December, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . January, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . February, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . March, ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . International
Securities
Identification
Number (ISIN) Name and Address of the
Exchanges Type of Security/
Scrip Code BSE Limited
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers,
Dalal Street,
Fort, Mumbai – . Non-Convertible
Debentures/
/Scrip ID:
955MML2063 INE101A08070 Non-Convertible
Debentures/
/Scrip ID:
757MML26 INE101A08088 * Indicative Stock Performance . Registrar and Transfer Agents The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the S&P BSE Sensitive Index is given in the chart below: KFin Technologies Limited
Unit: Mahindra & Mahindra Limited,
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. -, Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi, Telangana - , India
Tel. No.
: + Email
: einward.ris@kfintech.com
Website
: www.kfintech.com
Toll Free No. : S&P BSE Sensex S&P BSE SENSEX M&M ON BSE M&M on BSE Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Closing Price on Last Trading day of the Month M&M on NSE NSE Nifty M&M ON NSE The Shareholders may also visit website of depositories viz. National Securities Depository Limited viz. https://nsdl.co.in/faqs/faq.php
or Central Depository Services (India) Limited viz. https://www.cdslindia.com/Investors/open-demat.html for further understanding
of the Demat procedure. Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Closing Price on Last Trading day of the Month Feb Mar The Stakeholders Relationship Committee meets as and when required to, inter alia, consider the issue of Letter of
Confirmation in case of loss of share certificates and attend to Shareholders’ grievances, etc. The Shareholders holding shares in physical form are requested to get their shares dematerialised at the earliest to avoid any
inconvenience in future while transferring the shares. Shareholders are accordingly requested to get in touch with any Depository
Participant having registration with SEBI to open a Demat account to seek guidance in the demat procedure. Trading in Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company through recognized Stock Exchanges is permitted only in dematerialised
form. . Share Transfer System SEBI has also mandated furnishing of PAN, contact details, bank account details and nomination by holders of physical
securities. Further, the Shareholders holding shares in physical form may kindly note that SEBI, vide its various circulars has
mandated that dividend shall be paid only through electronic mode with effect from 1st April, . Hence the Shareholders
are requested to update their details with Company/RTA by submitting ISR Forms which are available on website of the
Company viz. https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/reports to avoid delay in receipt of dividend. The performance of your Company’s shares relative to the Nifty Index is given in the chart below: Pursuant to Regulation of Listing Regulations, no requests for effecting transfer of securities have been processed
unless the securities are held in the dematerialised form with the depository with effect from 1st April, . However,
this restriction shall not be applicable to request received for effecting transmission or transposition of physical shares.
Further, SEBI has mandated that securities shall be issued only in dematerialized mode while processing duplicate/unclaimed
suspense/renewal/exchange/endorsement/sub-division/consolidation/transmission/transposition service requests received
from physical securities holders. NSE Nifty . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E . Distribution of Shareholding as on 31st March, Number of Shares held Number of Shareholders* Number of Shares held % of Shareholding ,, ,,, . - , ,,, . -, , ,, . ,-, , ,,, . ,-, , ,,, . ,-, ,,, . ,-, ,, . ,-, ,, . ,-, ,, . ,-,, ,,, . ,, and above ,,,, . ,, ,,,, . - Total
* Without consolidating the folios on the basis of PAN MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E . Category-wise shareholding as of 31st March, .% Insurance Companies .% Promoter and Promoter Group .% Resident Individual shareholders .% Others .% Mutual Funds .% .% .% Foreign Portfolio Investors
(including FIIs) Employee Beneﬁt Trusts The details of Public shareholders holding more than %
(PAN-based) of the equity as on 31st March, are as
follows:
Name of the Shareholders Life Insurance Corporation of India* % of Share holding .% No. of shares held ,,, SBI Nifty ETF* .% ,,, First Sentier Investors ICVC Stewart Investors Asia Pacific Leaders
Sustainability Fund .% ,,, Government of Singapore .% ,,, NPS Trust- A/C HDFC Pension
Management Company Ltd Scheme E Tier I* .% ,,, Government Pension Fund Global .% ,,, UTI - Nifty Exchange Traded Fund* .% ,,, HDFC Trustee Company Limited HDFC Flexi Cap Fund* .% ,,, Kuwait Investment Authority Fund * .% ,,, Axis Mutual Fund Trustee Limited
A/C Axis Mutual Fund
A/C Axis Bluechip Fund* .% ,,, Vanguard Total International
Stock Index Fund .% ,,, Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock
Index Fund, A Series of Vanguard
International Equity Index Funds .% ,,, * including sub-accounts . Dematerialisation of Shares and Liquidity .% of the paid-up Ordinary (Equity) Share Capital
of your Company is held in a dematerialised form with
National Securities Depository Limited and Central
Depository Services (India) Limited as on 31st March,
. The market lot of the Share of your Company is
one Share, as the trading in the Equity Share of your
Company is permitted only in dematerialised form.
The Non-Promoters’ holding as on 31st March, is
around .% and the stock is highly liquid.
.% .% Dematerialized .% .% Policy, approved by the Board of Directors of your
Company. The Commodity prices in the Financial Year -
were moderate for most part of the year compared
to the previous year, on account of lower global
manufacturing activity and weak economic outlook, due
to elevated policy interest rates in the major economies.
Your Company stayed focused on cost reduction through
measures like VA/VE, negotiation with suppliers, long
term price contracting, etc. The details of Foreign Exchange hedging activities
undertaken by the Company are disclosed in Note No. to the Annual Accounts of the Annual Report. Hedging of currencies and commodities are being
governed in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Risk
Management Policy and Commodity Risk Management Note - Resident Individual shareholders mentioned above exclude Key Managerial Personnel, Non Independent Directors and their relative(s). .	Shareholders holding more than % of the shares as
on 31st March, .	
Commodity price risk or Foreign Exchange Risk &
hedging activities Your Company continues to watch the market situation
closely and continues to focus on mitigating commodity
price volatility through “Commodity Risk Management”. GDR Holders .% .% Physical .	Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any Convertible
Instruments, Conversion date and likely impact on
Equity ,,, GDRs constituting .% of the
paid-up Equity Share Capital were outstanding as on
31st March, . Since the underlying Ordinary (Equity)
Shares represented by GDRs have been allotted in full,
the outstanding GDRs have no impact on the Equity of
the Company. There are no other convertible instruments
outstanding as on 31st March, . Disclosures regarding commodity price risk and hedging
activities, the details of exposure of the Company to
material commodities and risks faced by it throughout
the year as mandated by Regulation () read with
clause (n) of Part C of Schedule V of the Listing
Regulations and Section VI-E: Disclosures regarding
commodity risks by listed entities of SEBI Master Circular
No. SEBI/ HO/ CFD/ PoD2 /CIR/P// dated 11th
July, , is as follows:
(a)	Total exposure of the listed entity to commodities in
INR: Rs., crores. (b)	Exposure of the listed entity to various commodities: Commodity Name Exposure towards the
particular commodity
(Rs crores)* F24 Exposure in
Quantity terms
towards the particular
commodity (tons)# % of such exposure hedged through commodity Derivatives
Domestic market International market (LME) Total OTC Exchange OTC Exchange ,, Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Flat Steel (Sheet Metal) , Casting , ,, Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Alloy Steel (Forging) , ,, Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil *
# As per average prices of FY24
As per Actual F24 Volumes (c)	Commodity risks faced by the listed entity during the year and how they have been managed: The commodity risks on above commodities are mitigated through close monitoring of commodity movements and mitigation
measures like value engineering yielding significant cost reduction.
. Plant Locations Your Company’s manufacturing facilities are located at Kandivali, Nashik, Igatpuri, Nagpur, Chakan, Zaheerabad, Jaipur,
Rudrapur, Haridwar, Mohali and Pithampur.
. Address for correspondence Shareholders may correspond with the Registrar and Transfer Agents at:
KFin Technologies Limited
Unit: Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. -,
Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda, Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddi,
Telangana - , India.
Tel. No.
Email
Website
Toll Free No. : + : einward.ris@kfintech.com
: www.kfintech.com
: for all matters relating to transmission/ dematerialisation of shares, payment of dividend and any other query relating to Equity
Shares of your Company. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E 
Other Service Centers of KFin Technologies Limited
for investors:
Mumbai:
KFin Technologies Limited,
/, Ground Floor, Crossely House, Near BSE (Bombay Stock
Exchange), Next to Union Bank, Fort, Mumbai - .
Tel: -
Email: mumbaimfd@Kfintech.com
Pune:
KFin Technologies Limited,
Office # -, second floor, Kamla Arcade, JM Road,
Opposite Balgandharva, Shivaji Nagar, Pune - .
Tel: - / -
Email: punemfd@Kfintech.com
New Delhi:
KFin Technologies Limited, New Delhi House, Barakhamba Road,
New Delhi - .
Tel: - Email: delhimfd@Kfintech.com
Bengaluru:
KFin Technologies Limited,
No. , Puttanna Road, Basavanagudi, Bengaluru - .
Tel: -
Email: bangaloremfd@Kfintech.com
Kolkata:
KFin Technologies Limited,
/ Russel Street, 4th Floor, Kankaria Centre,
Kolkata - .
Tel: Email: mfskolkata@Kfintech.com
Chennai:
KFin Technologies Limited,
9th Floor, Capital Towers, , Kodambakkam High Road,
Nungambakkam, Chennai - .
Tel: - , -
Email: chennaimfd@Kfintech.com 
Your Company has also designated investors@mahindra.com
as an exclusive email ID for Investors for the purpose of
registering complaints and the same has been displayed
on the Company’s website. KFin Technologies Limited
also acts as Registrar and Transfer Agents for the Listed
Non-Convertible Debentures of the Company. Security holders would have to correspond with the
respective Depository Participants for Securities held in
demateralised form for transfer/transmission of Shares,
change of Address, change in Bank details, etc. For all investor related matters, the Company Secretary &
Compliance Officer can also be contacted at:
Mahindra Towers,
2nd Floor, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
Worli, Mumbai - .
Tel. No. : + / Email: investors@mahindra.com Your Company can also be visited at its website:
https://www.mahindra.com.
.	
Name and Address for correspondence with
Debenture Trustee
Axis Trustee Services Limited
The Ruby, 2nd Floor, SW, Senapati Bapat Marg,
Dadar West, Mumbai - .
Tel. No. : + E-mail
:	debenturetrustee@axistrustee.in
.	
Disclosures with respect to Demat
Account/Unclaimed Suspense Account: Suspense In terms of Regulation of the Listing Regulations,
the Company reports the following details in respect of
equity shares lying in the suspense account:
Number of
Shareholders Number
of Equity
Shares Aggregate Number of Shareholders and the
outstanding shares in the Suspense Account
lying as on 1st April, , ,, Less: Number of Shareholders whose
shares were transferred from suspense
account during the year Aggregate number of Shareholders and
the outstanding shares in the suspense
account lying as on 31st March, , Particulars , .	
Unclaimed Dividend and shares transferred to
Investor Education and Protection Fund (“IEPF”)
In accordance with the provisions of sections and of the Act and Investor Education and Protection
Fund (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, (“IEPF Rules”), dividends which remain unpaid or
unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date
of transfer to the Unpaid Dividend Account shall be
transferred by the Company to the Investor Education
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”). The IEPF Rules mandate companies to transfer all shares
in respect of which dividend has not been paid or claimed
for seven consecutive years or more in the name of IEPF.
The Members whose dividend/ shares are transferred to
the IEPF Authority can claim their shares/dividend from
the IEPF Authority following the procedure prescribed in
the IEPF Rules. .	
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Management Discussion and Analysis Report forms part
of this Annual Report.
. Details of non-compliance, etc. Your Company has complied with all the requirements
of regulatory authorities. During the last three years,
there were no instances of non-compliance by the
Company and no penalty or strictures were imposed
on the Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or
any statutory authority, on any matter related to the
capital markets. The Company has also complied with
the requirements of Corporate Governance Report of
Paras () to () mentioned in Part ‘C’ and Parts ‘D’ to ‘G’
of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations and disclosed
necessary information as specified in Regulation to and Regulation () (b) to (i) and (t) of the Listing
Regulations in the respective places in this Report.  e details of Dividend remitted to IEPF during the
Th
year: * Financial
Year Dividend
declared on Amount
transferred to
IEPF
(in Rs.) Date of transfer to
IEPF - 10th August, ,,,. 28th September, -* 4th August, ,,,. 7th August, Dividend on shares which are transferred to IEPF. During the year -, the Company transferred ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares to IEPF Authority corresponding to
unclaimed dividend for the year -. The IEPF Authority holds ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the Company as on
31st March, . Pursuant to IEPF Rules, given below are the details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares transferred to and released from
IEPF Authority:
Number of shares transferred
to / released from IEPF Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,, Bonus shares credited to IEPF on 26th December, ,, Total number of shares held by IEPF as on March, ,, st The voting rights on the shares in the suspense account
shall remain frozen till the rightful owners claim the
shares. 
In accordance with the said IEPF Rules and its
amendments, the Company had sent notices to all the
Shareholders whose shares were due for transfer to the
IEPF Authority and simultaneously published newspaper
advertisement. . Shares transferred/ credited to IEPF Particulars
,, Transferred to IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on March, st Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,,
, Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on March, st Transferred to IEPF on April, ,, th Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 8th April, Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,,
, Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on March, ,, Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,, st Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on March, ,, Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,, Released from IEPF during the year - , st Total number of shares held by IEPF as on 31st March, ,, Transferred to IEPF during the year - ,, Released from IEPF during the year - , Total number of shares held by IEPF as on March, st ,, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E The voting rights on these shares shall remain frozen until the rightful owner claims the shares. The Company has appointed a Nodal Officer under the provisions of IEPF Rules, the details of which are available on the
website of the Company https://www.mahindra.com/contact-us. Further, the Company has also appointed Deputy Nodal Officers to assist the Nodal Officer to, inter alia, verify the claim(s)
and co-ordinate with the IEPF Authority. The Company has uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying with the Company as on 31st March, on the Company’s website at the web link: https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/regulatory-filings and on the
website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs at https://www.iepf.gov.in/content/iepf/global/master/Home/Home.html. The following table provides dates on which unclaimed dividend and their corresponding shares would become liable to be
transferred to the IEPF:
Date of declaration of dividend Due date for transfer to IEPF Amount (Rs.)
(As on 31st March, ) - 4th August, 3rd September, ,,,. - 7th August, 6th September, ,,,. - 7th August, 6th September, ,,,. - 7th August, 7th September, ,,. - August, September, ,,,. - August, September, ,,,. - 4th August, 4th September, ,,,. Year th th IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES
. Compliance with Mandatory requirements Your Company has complied with all the mandatory
requirements of the Listing Regulations relating to
Corporate Governance.
. Compliance with Non-mandatory requirements:
(a) Separate posts of Chairman and CEO 	Your Company has separate posts of Chairman and CEO.
Whilst Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman, Dr. Anish
Shah is the Managing Director and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.
(b) Office for Non-Executive Chairman 	Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Chairman of the Company is
entitled to maintain a full- fledged office including staff,
appropriate security, etc., the expense of which is borne
by the Company.
(c) Unmodified Audit Opinion 	During the year under review, there is no audit
qualification in your Company’s standalone financial
statements. Your Company continues to adopt best
practices to ensure regime of financial statements
with unmodified audit qualifications. th
th .	Total fees for all services paid to the Statutory Auditors
by the Company and its Subsidiaries for the Financial
Year - Total fees paid by the Company and its Subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis, to the Statutory Auditor viz.
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants, Firm Registration
No. 101248W/W- and all entities in the network
firm/network entity of which the Statutory Auditors is a
part, are as follows:
(Rs. in Crores) Amount Audit Fees (Including Limited Review Fees) . Other Services . Reimbursement of expenses . Total .	
Disclosure of certain type of Agreements Binding
Listed Entities: During the year under review, there were no such
recommendations made by any Committee of the Board
which were mandatorily required and not accepted by
the Board. Shareholders Agreement (“SHA”) between Mahindra
Sustainable Energy Private Limited, a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company (“MSEPL”), Ontario
Limited (“Ontario”) and Mahindra Teqo Private Limited, a
subsidiary of MSEPL which is a wholly owned subsidiary
of the Company (“MTPL”) executed on 25th September, envisages “Non-compete restrictions” on the
Company and its certain subsidiaries [excluding
listed affiliates of the Company and their respective
subsidiaries], with respect to conducting the Competing
Business i.e. the business of Providing Operations &
Maintenance and Consultancy Services for Renewable
Energy Assets in India, subject to certain exclusions
as defined in the SHA. A disclosure as required under
clause 5A of paragraph A of Part A of Schedule III of the
Listing Regulations was made to the Stock Exchanges by
the Company on 25th September, . .	Certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
regarding Non-Debarment and Non-Disqualification
of Directors A certificate from Company Secretary in Practice
certifying that none of the Directors on the Board of the
Company as on 31st March, have been debarred
or disqualified from being appointed or continuing
as Director of companies by the Board/ Ministry of
Corporate Affairs or any such Statutory Authority, is
annexed at the end of this Report. (a)	Number of complaints filed during
the financial year under review The Company has not raised funds through Preferential
Allotment/QIP during the year under review. Particulars .	Disclosure in relation to recommendation made by
any Committee which was not accepted by the Board: .	
Disclosure in relation to the Sexual Harassment
of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition
and Redressal) Act, for the Financial
Year - is as under: .	Details of utilisation of funds of Preferential Allotment/
QIP . : (b)	Number of complaints disposed of
during the financial year under review : (c)	Number of complaints pending as
on end of the financial year : .	Particulars of loans/advances/investments pursuant
to Para A of Schedule V of the Listing Regulations: The particulars of loans/advances/investments required
to be disclosed pursuant to Para A of Schedule V of
the Listing Regulations are furnished separately in the
Board’s Report and forms part of this Annual Report.
.	
Disclosure of Loans and advances in the nature
of loans to firms/companies in which directors are
interested by name and amount: The Loans and advances in the nature of loans to firms/
companies in which directors are interested are disclosed
separately in the Board’s Report and forms part of this
Annual Report.
. Directors and Officers Liability Insurance: As per the provisions of the Act and in compliance
with Regulation () of the Listing Regulations, the
Company has taken a Directors and Officers Liability
Insurance (D&O) on behalf of all Directors including
Independent Directors and Officers of the Company
for indemnifying any of them against any personal
liability coming onto them whilst discharging fiduciary
responsibilites in relation to the Company. . No Permanent Board Seats: SEBI has amended the Listing Regulations with effect
from 1st April, mandating shareholders’ approval
for a directors’ continuation on the Board at least once
every years from the date of their appointment or
reappointment. However, this provision is not applicable
to the Company as it does not have any Permanent
Board seats. As on 31st March, , there were Independent
Directors on the Board of your Company. The balance Directors viz. Non-Executive Chairman, Managing
Director & CEO and Executive Director are subject to
retirement by rotation. This practice of not having any permanent Board seats
was already institutionalised by the Company much
before such amendment was made effective.
. No Special Rights to Shareholders: SEBI introduced Regulation 31B to the Listing
Regulations, pursuant to which “Special Rights” granted
to a shareholder will be subject to the approval by the
shareholders in a general meeting by way of a special
resolution once in every five years starting from the
date of grant of such Special Right. The existing “Special
Rights” to any shareholder must be ratified within
five years of 14th July, . The Company ensures equitable treatment to all shareholders
and has not granted any special rights like Nomination
Rights, Veto Rights / Affirmative voting, Information Rights,
Anti-Dilution Rights, Right of First Refusal, Tag Along Rights,
Divestment Rights, etc. to its Shareholders. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E .	Shareholding of Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as on 31st March, :
The Shareholding of Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP”) of your Company as on 31st March, is as follows:
Name of KMP
(alongwith their Designations) No. of Ordinary (Equity)
Shares held as on
31st March, % of
Shareholding ,, .% , .% Nil — , .% Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
Mr. Manoj Bhat, Group Chief Financial Officer (upto 16th May, )
Mr. Narayan Shankar, Company Secretary X. GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
AGM held during the past years and the Special Resolutions passed therein:
Year Date Time Special Resolutions passed 6th August, : p.m. . Re-appointment of Mr. T. N. Manoharan (DIN: ) as an Independent Director of
the Company, not liable to retire by rotation, to hold office for a second term of (five)
consecutive years commencing from 11th November, to 10th November, . . Payment of remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: ) as a
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for a period of (five) years with effect from
12th November, .
Payment of remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: ) as
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for the Financial Year -.
https://www.mahindra.com/
investor-relations/reports
Payment of Remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: ) as Non‑Executive
Chairman of the Company for the Financial Year - 5th August, : p.m. . 4th August, : p.m. Revision in the terms of remuneration of Dr. Anish Shah (DIN: ), Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company Revision in the terms of remuneration of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (DIN: ), Executive
Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) of the Company Amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company XI. Advisory to Investors / Shareholders . . There is a possibility of fraudulent transactions relating
to folios which lie dormant. Hence, we urge you to
exercise diligence and notify the Company of any change
in address, as and when required. Confidentiality of security details Folio Nos./DP ID/Client ID should not be disclosed to
any unknown persons. Signed delivery instruction slips
should not be given to any unknown persons.
. Dealing with Registered Intermediaries 
Members should transact through a registered
intermediary. In case the intermediary does not act
professionally, Members can take up the matter with
SEBI.
.	Obtain documents relating to purchase and sale of
securities Details of General Meetings and Special Resolutions passed
Web link for webcast/
transcripts Note: In compliance with the provisions of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) General Circular No. / dated 5th May, read together
with MCA General Circular Nos. & / dated 8th April, and 13th April, , respectively, MCA General Circular No. / dated
13th January, , MCA General Circular No. / dated 5th May, and MCA General Circular No. / dated 28th December, and SEBI’s Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/ CIR/P// dated 12th May, read with SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/ CMD2/CIR/P//
dated 15th January, , the Company conducted the AGM(s) in the year , and through Video Conferencing /Other Audio Visual
Means (“VC”/“OAVM”). Further, in accordance with the Secretarial Standard- on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) read
with Clarification/Guidance on applicability of Secretarial Standards - and dated 15th April, issued by the ICSI, the proceedings of the
AGMs of the Company held in the year , and were deemed to have been conducted at the Registered Office of the Company
being the deemed venue of the AGM. No Extraordinary General Meeting was held during the past years.
No Special Resolution(s) requiring a Postal Ballot is/are being proposed at the ensuing AGM of the Company. No Postal Ballot
was conducted during the Financial Year -. A valid Contract Note/Confirmation Memo should be
obtained from the broker/sub-broker within hours
of execution of the trade. It should be ensured that the
Contract Note/Confirmation Memo contains order number,
trade number, trade time, quantity, price and brokerage. . Prevention of Frauds Non-Resident Shareholders The non-resident shareholders are requested to notify
the following to the Company in respect of shares held
in physical form and to their depository participants in
respect of shares held in the dematerialized form:
•	
Indian address for sending all communications, if not
provided so far;
•	
Change in their residential status on return to India
for permanent settlement;
•	
Particulars of Bank Account maintained with a Bank
in India, if not furnished earlier;
• RBI permission reference number with the date to
facilitate credit of dividend in their Bank Account. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO R P O R AT E
G OV E R N A N C E Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors DECLARATION UNDER THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (LISTING OBLIGATIONS
AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, To
The Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
I, Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited declare that all the Members of the Board of
Directors and Senior Management Personnel have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct for the year ended 31st March, .
Mumbai, 16th May, Anish Shah
Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer CERTIFICATE
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS UNDER SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) REGULATIONS, TO THE MEMBERS OF MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED
.	This certificate is issued in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated September .
.	We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“the Company”), for the year
ended March , as stipulated in regulations to , clauses (b) to (i) and (t) of regulation () and paragraphs C, D and E of
Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, as amended
from time to time (“Listing Regulations”) pursuant to the Listing Agreement of the Company with Stock Exchanges.
Management’s Responsibility
.	The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated under the listing regulations is the responsibility of the Company’s
Management including the preparation and maintenance of all the relevant records and documents. This responsibility includes the
design, implementation and maintenance of internal control and procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of Corporate
Governance stipulated in the Listing Regulations.
Auditors’ Responsibility
.	Our examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the
conditions of the Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
.	Pursuant to the requirements of the Listing Regulations, it is our responsibility to provide a reasonable assurance whether the Company
has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in Listing Regulations for the year ended March .
.	We conducted our examination of the above corporate governance compliance by the Company in accordance with the Guidance Note
on Reports or Certificates for Special Purposes (Revised ) and Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance both issued
by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India (the “ICAI”), in so far as applicable for the purpose of this certificate. The Guidance
Note requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
.	We have complied with the relevant applicable requirements of the Standard on Quality Control (SQC) , Quality Control for Firms that
Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
Opinion
.	In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has complied
with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above-mentioned Listing Regulations.
.	We state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Restriction on use
.	The certificate is addressed and provided to the Members of the Company solely for the purpose of enabling the Company to comply with
the requirement of the Listing Regulations and should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not
accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into
whose hands it may come without our prior consent in writing.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- Place: Bengaluru
Date: May Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No: UDIN: 24113156BKGFOL44336 CERTIFICATE
[Pursuant to Regulation () and sub-clause (i) of clause () of Paragraph C of Schedule V to the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, ]
To,
The Members of
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – I have examined the relevant registers, returns and records maintained by Mahindra and Mahindra Limited (“the Company”) having
CIN L65990MH1945PLC004558 and registered office at Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai – , forms and disclosures
received from the Directors of the Company, produced before me by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance
with Regulation () read with sub-clause (i) of clause () of Paragraph C of Schedule V to the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, .
In my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the verifications (including Directors’ Identification Number (DIN) status at
the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to me by the Company and its Officers, I certify that none
of the Directors on the Board of the Company for the Financial year ended on March , has been debarred or disqualified from being
appointed or continuing as Director of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such
statutory Authority.
Ensuring eligibility for appointment / continuity of every director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My
responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on my verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of
the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. Place: Pune
Date: May CS SACHIN BHAGWAT
Membership No.: A C. P. No.: UDIN: A010189F000378403
PR Certificate No.: / MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. DETAILS [GRI -, -, -] Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity L65990MH1945PLC004558 Name of the Listed Entity Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Year of incorporation Registered office address Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai - Corporate address Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg, Worli,
Mumbai - E-mail investors@mahindra.com Telephone + Website www.mahindra.com Financial Year for which reporting is being done -- to -- Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed Your Company’s Ordinary (Equity) Shares are listed on
BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange of India
Limited (“NSE”).
The Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) of the Company
are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and are also
admitted for trading on International Order Book (IOB) of
the London Stock Exchange.
The Company’s privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures
(NCDs) are listed on the Debt Segment of BSE. Paid-up Capital Rs. . Cr. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the
BRSR report
Name Of Contact Person Rohit Thakur
Chief Human Resources Officer – Auto and Farm Sectors Contact Number Of Contact Person + Email Of Contact Person rohitthakur@mahindra.com Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report The disclosures under this report are made on Standalone
made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) or on basis.
a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities
which form a part of its consolidated financial statements,
taken, together). Name of assurance provider DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited Type of assurance obtained Reasonable Assurance obtained on the BRSR Core MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT II. PRODUCTS/SERVICES [GRI -] IV. EMPLOYEES [GRI -, -, -, -] . Details of business activities . Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. Employees and workers (including differently abled): S. Description of main activity
No. Description of business activity Manufacturing Motor vehicles, trailers, semi-trailers and other Transport
Vehicles % of
turnover of
the entity
. . Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for % of the entity's Turnover):
S. Product/Service
No. NIC Code % of total
Turnover
contributed Automotive , , , , , . Farm Equipment , . III. OPERATIONS [GRI -] S.
Particulars
No Male Total (A) Female No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) EMPLOYEES
. Permanent (D) , , . , . . Other than Permanent (E) . . . Total employees (D + E) , , . , . . Permanent (F) , , . . . Other than Permanent (G) , , . , . . Total workers (F + G) , , . , . WORKERS b. Differently abled Employees and workers: S.
Particulars
No Male Total (A)* Female No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES . Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location Number of plants Number of offices Total National International - . Permanent (D) . . . Other than Permanent (E) . . . Total differently abled employees (D + E) . . . Permanent (F) .% . . Other than Permanent (G) .% . . Total differently abled workers (F + G) .% . DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS * Numbers mentioned above are based on voluntary disclosures from employees & workers . Markets served by the entity:
a. . Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women Number of locations Total (A) Location Number National (No. of States)
International (No. of Countries)
b. No. (B) % (B/A) Board of Directors .% States and Union Territories Key Management Personnel * .% * Includes Managing Director & CEO and Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) as per the definition of Key Management Personnel (KMP), also
covered in the number of directors on the Board. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? . Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
(Disclose trends for the past years) .%
c. No. and percentage of Females FY -
(Turnover rate in current FY) FY -
(Turnover rate in previous FY) Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Permanent Employees .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Permanent Workers .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% A brief on types of customers The Company serves various customers including urban population, rural population, government and corporates, SMEs,
agricultural and non-agricultural businesses, and tours and travels businesses amongst others. Note: Includes workers opted for retirement under voluntary retirement scheme of the Company. FY - (Turnover rate in the
year prior to the previous FY) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT V.	HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES (INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES)
[GRI -]
. (a) Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures For the year -, the below mentioned subsidiaries are those who have participated in Business Responsibility
initiatives of the Company. The list of other subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures of the Company is provided in
Form AOC‑ and forms part of this Annual Report: S.
No. Name of the holding/subsidiary/associate companies/
joint ventures (A) Indicate whether
holding/Subsidiary/
Associate/Joint
Venture % of
shares held
by listed
entity* Does the entity indicated
at column A, participate in
the Business Responsibility
initiatives of the listed entity?
(Yes/No) Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Accelo Limited
(Formerly known as Mahindra Intertrade Limited) Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra World City Developers Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Logistics Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra Susten Private Limited Subsidiary . Yes Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited Subsidiary . Yes VII. TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURES COMPLIANCES [GRI -]
.	Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles to ) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business
Conduct:
FY -
Stakeholder
group from
whom complaint
is received Grievance
Redressal
Mechanism in
Place (Yes/No) Communities Yes Investors
(other than
shareholders) Yes Yes Turnover (in Rs. crores) ,. Net worth (in Rs. crores) ,. Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
close of the
year Remarks Number of
complaints
filed during
the year Number of
complaints
pending
resolution at
close of the
year Remarks NA – – NA – – NA Name of the Policy: – – NA – – NA Web-Link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments
Shareholders Yes Name of the Policy:
Investors Grievance Redressal
Policy
Web-Link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments – NA – NA Employees
and workers Yes Name of the Policy:
Code of Conduct for Employees
Web-Link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments NA NA Customers Yes There is no official policy, however,
in all the Company's touch points
like – Owner’s Manual, Website,
With You Hamesha (WYH) App
& Repair Orders, it is mentioned
to connect on the registered
customer care email ID or toll
free number in case of any
feedback. , , NA , , NA Value Chain
Partners Yes Name of the Policy:
Suppliers Code of Conduct
Web-Link:
h t t p s : // w w w. m a h i n d r a . c o m/
investor-relations/policies-anddocuments – – NA – – NA Other NA – – – NA – – NA VI. CSR DETAILS [GRI -] Whether CSR is applicable as per section of Companies Act, Number of
complaints
filed during
the year if Yes, then provide web-link for
grievance redressal policy FY - Investors Grievance Redressal
Policy * Percentage holding in subsidiaries represents aggregate percentage of shares/voting power held by the Company and/or its subsidiaries. . CSR Details . Overview of the entity's material responsible business conduct issues [GRI -, -, -, -] Material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters
that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or
mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications S. No. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Material issue
identified Indicate
whether risk
or opportunity
(R/O) Water Security R Rationale for identifying the risk /
opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications of the
risk or opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) Fresh water is an important input The Company strives to mitigate the Negative Implication:
for both manufacturing processes water risk by adopting following four
Stoppage of
and domestic purposes of the methods:
water impacts
Company. Processes such as
.	The Company utilises various global manufacturing
paint booths are water intensive
tools to identify the water risk processes and utility
processes in automotive and farm
across its operation sites and value set ups.
industry. It is important to use
chain. Based upon the amount of
quality water to maintain the paint
risk in respective river basins, the
quality. Water scarcity is India’s
mitigation action is planned and
silent crisis and unpredictable
executed.
rainfall across India makes the
Optimum usage of water in all
manufacturing
plants
more .	
operations through various water
vulnerable for water shortages.
efficiency measures adopted such
Tractor sales are also largely
as low volume water taps, arresting
dependent upon the monsoon in
leakages in pipelines, amongst
India. Hence insulating against
others.
water risk is one of the identified
business risks and priorities.
.	Rainwater harvesting: By increasing S. No. Material issue
identified Indicate
whether risk
or opportunity
(R/O) O Waste to
Wealth O Product
Stewardship R rainwater storage capacity. .	
Recycling: By installing ETP/STP
and RO plants, we strive to increase
our recycling capacity.
.	Ground water recharge: By installing
specially designed deep aquifer pits
for improving ground water table. To
ensure the availability of water for
the community, the Company is also
working on watershed management
projects. Carbon
Emissions R The business risk of climate The Company has laid down a Negative Implications:
change can affect the Company in comprehensive and detailed plan to
multiple ways including regulatory manage its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Impacts the
impact on vehicle sales, physical emissions. Some of the programs or environment such as
physical damage from
changes which could affect the commitments are mentioned below:
floods or brushfire or
operating environment of the
.	Committed for carbon Pricing-invest forced closures. Flowproducts, among others. As the
$ per ton of carbon emission.
on effects of climate
Company operates in an evolving
carbon
emissions
regulatory .	Committed for EP i.e., double- change or extreme
Energy productivity by in events include supply
environment, it is essential that
association with The Climate Group. chain being disrupted
the Company plans and works on
by extreme weather.
ways to mitigate the risk.
.	
Committed to reduce carbon
intensity by % by FY (with base year of -)
- signatory to the Science based
Targets. .	
Committed to become carbon
neutral by . The Company is
also focusing on increasing the
market share of the electric vehicle
portfolio in India, emerging, and
developed markets. Rationale for identifying the risk /
opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications of the
risk or opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) The Company is committed to NA
sustainable business practices
by contributing to environment
protection and considers carbon
emission reduction as one of
the strong pillars of preserving
natural resources. Carbon Emission
reduction helps in reducing the
power and fuel cost (which is around
% of total vehicle conversion
cost) and hence improves the
bottom-line under the Company’s
‘Mission Sustainability’. Positive Implications: The Company is committed to NA
sustainable business practices
by contributing to environment
protection and considers waste to
wealth as one of the focus areas
under sustainability. Production
of automobiles involves the
generation of waste materials both
Hazardous and Non-hazardous
waste. The major impact of this
waste is environment pollution
and resource depletion. Positive Implications: Leads to resource
efficiencies and cost
savings. The adoption
of low emission energy
sources results in the
development of new
products and services,
access to new markets
and building resilience
along the supply chain. Reduction in waste
generation or
recycling of waste
leads to economic
gains and supports
in reduction of Green
House Gas (GHG)
emissions. In the current situation, customers To cater to the new product Negative Implications:
have many options to choose requirements, the Company is engaging
It is imperative for
from various brands. Competition in various phases of R&D/production/
manufacturers to
from peers, customer focus, new marketing of clean automotive products
design products so
regulations,
market
demand, like hybrid vehicles, bio-fuel vehicles,
as to meet changing
etc. are some of the drivers electric passenger vehicle, hydrogen
consumer behaviour
for constant evolution and new combustion engine vehicle, etc. Further,
and expectations.
product development.
a full-fledged Product Improvement
Creating products
Roadmap is in place at the Company. This
and services that are
roadmap focuses on reduction in specific
not-sustainable/ not
fuel consumption, weight reduction,
viable/ not accessible/
switching to alternative fuels, enhancing
not affordable will have
product safety, etc. We are fully geared
an impact on overall
up to leverage opportunities through
brand image and
our initiatives in Shared Mobility, Electric
economic performance.
Vehicles, innovative products and
extensive product portfolio. S. No. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Material issue
identified Health and
Safety Indicate
whether risk
or opportunity
(R/O) R Rationale for identifying the risk /
opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications of the
risk or opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) The Company is committed to zero The Company is a people-first company and Negative Implications:
accidents at the workplace. However, strives to mitigate the plant’s risks arising
The consequences of
certain risks mentioned below have from health and safety issues.
poor health and safety
been identified:
The Company incorporates high safety in the workplace have
a.	Space constraints in older plants standards for safe working conditions to an impact on the safety
achieve an interdependent safety culture.
of the employees.
b.	Depletion of level of workforce
skills due to retirement and To avoid unsafe incidents, the Company has Work-related illness or
deployment of new contractual/ adopted certain key safety standards, safety injury not only puts an
employee out of work
trainee workmen
tools and practices, including:
for a while and impacts
c.	
Less exposure to Latest . ISO certification for all sites
their quality of life, it
Technology and high dependency
.	
Implementing globally benchmarked may also damage the
on Manual intervention in
Mahindra safety standards in all business productivity,
manufacturing
finances and reputation.
manufacturing operations
d.	Lack of contingencies/ alternative
.	
Work proactively towards eliminating
for
critical
equipment/old
health and safety concerns of the
equipment
workforce
.	Installing cutting edge firefighting
systems at all manufacturing plant
locations
.	
Improving and developing safety
skills by creating safety awareness,
conducting trainings and dexterity of
machining, assembly, safety in material
handling etc.
. Instituting safety mechanisms based on
the recognized Kaizen and Poka-Yoke
concepts
. 
Promoting proactive measures to
prevent accidents and occupational
hazards such as SOPs, internal audits,
safety assessments and regular reviews
. 
Rewarding
and
recognizing
commendable achievements in the field
of Health and Safety
The Company’s focus is not only on physical
health, but also on the mental health and
well-being of employees. The Company
creates awareness, provides information,
assists employees with counselling, provides
them with therapy and training and engages
with them on a regular basis on new realities
and emotional challenges that they may
face daily under the below listed health and
wellness pillars:
. Physical Health
. Food and Nutrition
. Psychological well-being
. Way wellness S. No. Material issue
identified Indicate
whether risk
or opportunity
(R/O) Rationale for identifying the risk /
opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate Financial implications of the
risk or opportunity (Indicate
positive or negative
implications) Sustainable
Supply Chain R The Company considers suppliers The Company has set a stringent Code of Positive Implications:
as business partners and strives to Conduct covering all environmental and
develop sustainable supply chain. For social aspects for all suppliers. Further, in Improvement in ESG
delivering right product/services at order to mitigate various supply chain risks practices at the
right time to customers, supply chain such as ESG risk, Financial risk, Safety risk, supplier's end will
plays a vital role and any disruption in Labour risk, the Company conducts ESH, improve supply chain
supply chain will impact the business Health, Fire & Safety audits for identified efficiency & considerably
of the Company. Moreover, any breach suppliers through renowned third-party audit reduce the risk of supply
of ESG practices will result in severe agencies. Based on the improvement areas chain disruption along
impact on supplier’s business and also identified in the audits, suppliers submit with reputation risk. This
on the business of the Company and mitigation plan. The Company runs various will result in smooth
its reputation.
training programs for suppliers namely operations.
Business Capability Building (SBCB), Fire &
Safety, ESG trainings for identified suppliers
to inculcate awareness on impact of factors
like Environmental, Social, Governance and
Health & Safety. CSR
Management O In alignment with the Group’s RISE NA
Philosophy, CSR at Mahindra is an
integral part of the business. There is
a defined CSR Policy which outlines the
CSR strategy of investing in projects
that address nation building priorities
as well as focus on local developmental
needs across all the locations of the
Company.
The flagship CSR Initiatives undertaken
by the Company focus on empowering
underprivileged girls, women economic
empowerment
and
environment
conservation. These align to the UN
SDG Goals and CSR Framework laid
down by the Government and the
Company’s ESG goals.
Flagship CSR Initiatives undertaken
during the year include the following.
.	Nanhi Kali -This initiative empowers
underprivileged girls studying in
government schools from Class to10, by providing educational
support and enabling them to
successfully
complete
their
schooling.
.	Women’s Economic Empowerment This initiative empowers women by
providing essential skills training in
various domains which matches with
the emerging skill requirements of
the industry.
.	Hariyali and Water Management 
As a part of environment
conservation, these initiatives
focus on a massive tree
plantation drive to enhance the
green cover and biodiversity.
The focus is also on addressing
climate change aspects through
climate resilience-based water
management and conservation
efforts with the support of
community engagement and
ownership. Positive Implications:
In compliance with the
requirement under the
Companies Act, ,
the Company has spent
% of the average net
profit for the last three
ﬁnancial years on CSR
Initiatives during the
reporting year.
The CSR Initiatives
helped achieve the
following positive
outcomes: .	Girl Child Education
has enabled access
to education and
has increased
confidence levels
of girls to continue
education.
.	Women Economic
Empowerment has
created possibilities
for women to
tap opportunities
to enhance their
socio-economic
status through
employability and
career readiness.
.	The Environment
conservation efforts
have contributed
to improved
green cover,
water security,
biodiversity,
improved soil and
agri-practices
resulting in
irrigation and water
conservation. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES Disclosure Questions This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place
towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity in a manner that is ethical, transparent and accountable P2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe P3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains P4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive towards all its stakeholders P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights P6 Businesses should respect, protect and make efforts to restore the environment P7 Businesses when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent P8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner Disclosure Questions P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Specific commitments, goals and targets set The Company is committed to becoming a Planet Positive business with a clear
by the entity with defined timelines, if any. action plan that includes becoming Carbon Neutral (Scope1 and ) by ,
[GRI -]
doubling energy productivity by , zero waste to landfill by , sustaining
its water positivity index and increasing its share of renewable energy to %
by . The Company is the largest electric -wheeler company in the country
with dominant Market Share and supporting a net-zero supply chain. Also, % of
waste generated by the Company is recycled and reused.
The Company has a formal policy on Human Rights and Equal Opportunities
which is available in the public domain, and the Company stands committed to the
same. The Company is committed to educate million girls per year by . The
Company is also committed to support million women per year by . P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 a.	
Whether your entity’s policy/policies
cover each principle and its core elements
of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No) [GRI -, -] Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes b.	
Has the policy been approved by the
Board? (Yes/No) [GRI -, -] Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Policy and Management Processes P1 Performance of the entity against the specific The Company has a clear -year roadmap on material ESG aspects and planet
commitments, goals and targets along-with positive commitments. The detailed performance against roadmap/Action plan
reasons in case the same are not met. [GRI -] is provided in the Sustainability Report. The details of project Nanhi kali &
Women Empowerment are provided in Annexure VI of the Board Report forming
part of the Annual report. Governance, Leadership and Oversight Statement by director responsible for the
business responsibility report, highlighting ESG
related challenges, targets and achievements
[GRI -, -] c.	
Web Link of the Policies, if available It has been the Company’s practice to upload all policies on the intranet site for
[GRI -, -]
the information and implementation by the internal stakeholders.
Policies viz. Code of Conduct for Directors, Code of Conduct for Employees, AntiBribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment
and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy are available on the following web-link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents Whether the entity has translated the policy
into procedures. (Yes/No) [GRI -, -] Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Do the enlisted policies extend to your value
chain partners? (Yes/No) [GRI -] Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Name of the national and international codes/
certifications/labels/ standards (e.g., Forest
Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest
Alliance, Trustee) standards (e.g., SA ,
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and
mapped to each principle. .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. ISO ISO ISO (QMS)
ISO GRI Standards
United Nations Global Compact ('UNGC')
Sustainable Development Goals ('SDGs')
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) on Climate Change & water,
S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA)
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
WEF's Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics
European Union's ELV Directive The Company’s success is defined by its financial performance, but also
equally by its ability to make the world a better place. Two years ago, the
Company unveiled its ‘Planet Positive’ strategy - a comprehensive approach
to environment sustainability that goes beyond emissions and own operations,
recognising the interrelated challenges in areas like circularity, supply chain
decarbonisation, developing a portfolio of green offerings, and moving the
broader ecosystem forward. The approach is geared towards greening own
operations, supporting decarbonisation of the Company’s industries, and
rejuvenating nature, while incorporating principles of just transition. The
Company continues to progress on greening its operations by focusing on
renewable energy, energy efficiency, water conservation, waste management
and bringing in principle material circularity.
True leadership transcends compliance. The Company aspires to be a global
leader, pioneering sustainability solutions well before necessitated by
regulations or stakeholders. The Company’s efforts are recognised by key global
organisation, including DJSI and CDP. Collaboration, partnerships and advocacy
are crucial to accelerate action. The Company is also actively pursuing crossindustry collaborations to drive change.
While the Company has achieved notable progress, it still has a long way to
go. The Company is committed to the ‘Citizens of the Future’, and sincerely
appreciates the support from all its stakeholders. Details of the highest authority responsible for Dr. Anish Shah - Managing Director and CEO (DIN: ) is the Director
implementation and oversight of the Business responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility
Policy(ies).
Responsibility policy (ies). [GRI -]
Mr. Rohit Thakur - Chief Human Resources Officer (Auto and Farm Sectors) is
the BR Head. Does the entity have a specified Committee of
the Board/ Director responsible for decision
making on sustainability related issues? (Yes /
No). If yes, provide details. [GRI -] Yes. The Company has a CSR Committee of the Board which oversees the
CSR performance in the year. It currently comprises of members including
Independent Directors and Managing Director and CEO. The details of the
composition of the CSR Committee are provided in the Corporate Governance
Report forming part of the Annual Report.
The CSR Committee of the Board assesses the BRSR performance twice a year.
Other supporting councils or cells are Group Sustainability Council, Group CSR
Council, Central Safety Council and Corporate Governance Council, who meet
every months for decision making related to sustainability issues. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT PRINCIPLE . Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director /
Committee of the Board/ Any other Committee Frequency (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any
other – please specify) P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 Performance against
above policies and
follow up action Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Half Yearly Compliance with statutory
requirements of relevance
to the principles, and,
rectification of any noncompliances Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Quarterly . Has the entity carried out independent
assessment/ evaluation of the working of
its policies by an external agency? (Yes/
No). If yes, provide name of the agency
[GRI -] P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY, AND IN A MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL,
TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE.
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
.  ercentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year
P
[GRI -, -]: Segment
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 No No No No No No No No No Total number of training and
awareness programmes held Topics / principles covered under
the training and its impact % age of persons in respective category
covered by the awareness programmes Familiarization Programmes are
conducted for Directors from
time to time which cover topics
like Governance and Regulatory
Requirements, Risk Management,
Industry Outlook, Code of Conduct,
Conflict of Interest, etc. Code of Conduct (COC), Anti‑Bribery
& Anti-Corruption (ABAC),
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at
Workplace (POSH), Whistle Blower
Mechanism, Gifts and Entertainment
and Conflict of Interest Employees other
than Board and
KMPs * COC, ABAC, POSH, Whistle Blower
Mechanism, Gifts and Entertainment
and Conflict of Interest COC: %
ABAC: %
POSH: % Workers COC, ABAC and POSH Board of Directors Key Managerial
Personnel . If answer to question () above is "No" i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Question P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 The entity does not consider the Principles material to its
business (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate
and implement the policies on specified principles (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical
resources available for the task (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA * The above-mentioned data of trainings pertains exclusively to the ethical trainings conducted. Other than the above, trainings on topics such as
Human rights, Health & Safety, Skill upgradation, etc are also undertaken by the employees. It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Any other reason (please specify) NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Note: In a continuous endeavor to strengthen compliance, the Company is taking various measures to improve the overall completion rate of these
trainings. SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in integrating the Principles and Core Elements with
key processes and decisions. The information sought is categorized as “Essential” and “Leadership”. While the essential indicators
are expected to be disclosed by every entity that is mandated to file this report, the leadership indicators may be voluntarily
disclosed by entities which aspire to progress to a higher level in their quest to be socially, environmentally and ethically
responsible. . % Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings
(by the entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the
financial year, in the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as
specified in Regulation of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, and as
disclosed on the entity's website) [GRI -]:
Monetary*
NGRBC Principle Name of the regulatory/ enforcement
agencies/ judicial institutions Nil NA Nil NA Nil NA Amount (In INR) Brief of the Case Has an appeal been preferred?
(Yes/No) NA NA NA NA NA NA Penalty/ Fine
Settlement
Compounding fee
- MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Non-Monetary
NGRBC Principle Name of the regulatory/ enforcement
agencies/ judicial institutions Brief of the Case Has an appeal been preferred?
(Yes/No) Imprisonment
Nil NA NA NA NA NA NA . Number of days of accounts payables ((Accounts payable*)/ Cost of goods/ services procured) in the following
format: . Of the instances disclosed in Question above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary
or non-monetary action has been appealed. [GRI -]
Case Details Name of the regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions NA NA Parameter Metrics Concentration of
Purchases Concentration of
Sales FY - FY - .% .% c.	Purchases from top trading houses as % of total purchases from trading houses .% .% a. Sales to dealers/ distributors as a % of total sales .% .% b. Number of dealers/ distributors to whom sales are made a.	Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases
b. Number of trading houses where purchases are made from c.	Sales to top dealers/ distributors as a % of total sales to dealers/ distributors .% .% a. Purchases (Purchases with related parties/ Total purchases) .% .% b. Sales (Sales with related parties/ Total Sales) .% .% c.	Loans & Advances (Loans & Advances given to related parties/ Total loans & advances) .% .% d.	Investments (Investments in related parties/ Total Investments made) .% .% Share of RPTs in* Yes, the Company practices a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has a policy on Anti-Bribery and AntiCorruption. This policy provides a framework for ensuring compliance with legislations governing bribery and corruption
globally. The web-link to the policy is https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents. * As per the Standalone Financial Statements of the Company . Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption [GRI -, -]:
FY - FY - Directors Nil Nil KMPs Nil Nil Employees Nil Nil Workers Nil Nil LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
.  wareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year
A
[GRI -]: The Company runs various programmes such as Supplier Business Capability Building (SBCB), ESG and Supplier Risk
Management & Mitigation (SRMM) for critical, long term, strategic and needy suppliers. Under these programmes, below
mentioned trainings were conducted in F24 covering several aspects such as governance, ethics, transparency, accountability,
health, safety, employee well-being and various regulatory requirements.
Total number of awareness
programmes held Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest [GRI -, -]: Topics / principles covered under the training FY - Number Remarks Number Remarks Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors - NA - NA Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs - NA - NA . 
Details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along with loans
and advances & investments, with related parties: . Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available,
provide a web-link to the policy [GRI -, -] FY - FY - . Open-ness of Business * There are no fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the Company or by directors / KMPs)
with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions in the financial year which are material as specified in Regulation ()((i)(c) of SEBI
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, (“LODR”). Please refer to Company’s website at https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/regulatory-filings to access the disclosures made to the Stock Exchanges under Regulation of LODR for penalties levied by Tax Authorities
in connection with assessment matters. . FY -
Number of days of accounts payable Punishment
Nil %age of value chain partners covered (by value
of business done with such partners) under the
awareness programmes a. Essentials of Sustainability
b.	Regulatory requirements of Environment,
Social, Governance, Health, Safety and working
conditions
c.	Various disclosures including BRSR & Reporting
frameworks
d. M&M’s ESG commitments .% a.
b.
c.
d.
e. .* Ethics, Transparency and Accountability,
Supplier Risk Management, Value analysis &
Engineering, Program Management  rovide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by
P
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. [GRI -]
NA Basics of Industrial Safety
Safety risk mitigation techniques
Occupational Health & Safety
Personal Protective Equipment
Regulatory requirements of Health and Safety * % of value chain partners (by purchase value) have undergone training since FY - .% . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT  oes the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board?
D
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same. [GRI -, -] Yes, the Company has laid out a separate Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors which sets clear guidelines for
avoiding and disclosing actual or potential conflicts of interest with the Company. Further, the Company also receives
disclosure of interest at regular intervals from the Board.
Name of the Policy:
Code of Conduct for Directors (a) Plastics (including packaging) Plastic which is removed from end-of-life vehicle is recycled through agencies authorized by the Pollution Control
Board. Granules are prepared from the plastic waste and used as raw material for making new products. The Company
does not use any packaging material in its process. The post-consumer plastic packaging waste generated from product
and spares are disclosed under Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) obligations of the Company and its suppliers.
Waste management agencies and recyclers authorized by the Pollution control board are engaged to fulfil the EPR
targets through channelization of plastic packaging waste from post-consumer market and also through procurement
of recycling certificates from authorized recyclers.
(b) E-waste Web-Link:
https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents E-waste is recycled through recyclers authorized by the Pollution Control Board as per E-waste management Rules, . (c) Hazardous waste PRINCIPLE All hazardous waste from the vehicle is removed before beginning the scrapping process. This includes collection of fluid
and CFC. The Hazardous waste (fluid) is sent to agencies authorized by the Pollution Control Board for recycling/refining.
(d) Other waste
BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY -
% R&D * Capex * FY -
% All the ferrous and non-ferrous metals are extracted from the vehicle for recycling. Some parts are also sold to end
users / garages for reuse which is allowed as per Automotive Industry Standard (AIS) . Lead-acid battery waste
generated in post-consumer market are disclosed under the EPR obligation of battery suppliers to the Company, which
ensure recycling through agencies authorized by the Pollution Control Board.
. Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts Yes Development of Trem , Trem V, CPCB4, Stage V Technologies If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted
to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same. – to reduce air pollution – Mitigate Global warming effects Electric tractor – Concept development of e-tractor & POC completion Yes Facility addition for Born Electric vehicle development LEADERSHIP INDICATORS –	Mainly Battery & Electric Vehicle technology development labs/ Inhouse testing facilities . Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
industry) or for its services (for service industry)? Development of Born Electric Vehicles
– Zero Tailpipe emission & improving air quality – Reducing reliance on Fossil fuel Yes
If yes, provide details * A large amount of capital expenditure and R&D expenses related to electric vehicles & other technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts
of products and processes are done through a separate entity Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) [a Subsidiary of the Company]. The same has
been included in the scope of reporting. . a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No) [GRI -, -] NIC Code Yes
b. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity's activities (Yes / No). If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably? [GRI -, -] The Company has been working to enhance the degree of sustainability associated with its sourcing practices under
“ONE SOURCING”. As part of the sourcing strategy, the Company has set up vendor parks near manufacturing plants,
sources from tightly knit clusters and optimizes logistics to reduce fuel consumption, emissions and carbon footprint.
Out of the suppliers assessed in FY -, % of suppliers are using renewable energy and % of suppliers are
using recycled water. Further, the Company is exploring potential collaboration with suppliers towards the adaptation
of renewable energy through group companies who produce renewable energy. .% of suppliers by purchase value
are certified either for ISO or .
. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste. [GRI -, -] CERO, which is India's first and largest network of vehicle recycling facilities, is a brand under subsidiary Mahindra MSTC
Recycling Private Limited, established in collaboration with Government of India Enterprise (GOI). CERO strives to achieve
the goal of zero pollution, wastage and metal scrap imports. . Name of
Product/
Service % of total
Turnover
contributed Boundary
for which the
Life Cycle
Perspective /
Assessment was
conducted Whether
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes/No) Results
communicated
in public domain
(Yes/No) If yes, provide
the web-link. Monocoque SUV .% Cradle to grave Yes No – If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of
your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other
means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same. [GRI -, -, -]
No significant social or environmental risks were identified from the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) studies carried out. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT . Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled,
and safely disposed [GRI -, -]:
FY - FY - b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by Category Health insurance
Total (A) Number
(D) % (D/A) Number
(E) % (E/A) Number
(F) , , . , . – . – . – . . . . – . . , , . , . . – . . , . , . – . – . – . Recycled Safely
Disposed Plastics (including packaging) – ,. – – ,. – Permanent workers E-waste – – – – – – Male Hazardous waste – – – – – – Female Other waste – – – – – – Total
Male , Female , , . , . , . – . , . Total , , . , . , . – . , . Note: All workers are covered under well-being measures as per applicable legal requirements c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers (including permanent and other than
permanent) in the following format: . ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees [GRI -]:
% of employees covered by Category Total
(A) FY - .% .% Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year. [GRI--]
FY - . FY -
Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the Company BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR
VALUE CHAINS Health insurance
Number
(B) % (B/A) % (F/A) Other than Permanent workers The Company recycled . MT of plastic as part of its EPR Compliance under the Plastic Waste
Management Rules, . PRINCIPLE Day Care facilities % (C/A) Re-Used Plastics used for protecting or packaging
parts of the vehicles sold & Packaging used in
Spare Parts Business Paternity Benefits Number
(C) Safely
Disposed Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in respective
category Maternity Benefits % (B/A) Recycled Indicate product category Accident insurance Number
(B) Re-Used . Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
[GRI -, -] FY -* No. of employees
covered as
a % of total
employees No. of workers
covered as
a % of total
workers Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.) No. of employees
covered as
a % of total
employees No. of workers
covered as
a % of total
workers Deducted and
deposited with
the authority
(Y/N/N.A.) PF^ . . Yes . . Yes Gratuity^ . . Yes . . Yes ESI^ . . Yes . . Yes – – NA – – NA Benefits Accident insurance Maternity Benefits Paternity Benefits Day Care facilities Others –
please specify Number
(C) % (C/A) Number
(D) % (D/A) Number
(E) % (E/A) Number
(F) % (F/A) * Only permanent employees and workers have been considered while arriving at the % for FY -
^ All eligible employees and workers are covered Permanent employees . Accessibility of workplaces Male , , . , . – . , . – . Female , , . , . , . – . , . Total , , . , . , . , . , .  re the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements
A
of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, ? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this
regard. [GRI -]
Yes Other than Permanent employees
Male . . – . – . – . Female . . . – . . Total . . . – . . Note: All employees are covered under well-being measures as per applicable legal requirements . Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, ? [GRI -] Yes, the Company has an Equal Opportunity policy which is available on the Company's intranet site for information and
implementation by the internal stakeholders. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave. [GRI -]
Permanent employees Gender Return to work rate Retention rate Return to work rate FY -* Retention rate .% .% NA NA Female .% .% NA NA Total .% .% NA NA . Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and
worker? [GRI -]
Yes
If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Yes/No (If Yes, then give details of
the mechanism in brief) Other than Permanent Workers Yes Permanent Employees Yes Other than Permanent Employees Remark
The Company has a policy on Whistle-Blower Mechanism and
Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace (POSH) to provide
a work environment that ensures all employees (permanent/
temporary including workers) at the workplace are treated with
respect, dignity and are afforded equal as well as fair treatment. Yes Total employees
/ workers in
respective
category (C) No. of employees /
workers in respective
category, who are
part of association(s)
or Union (D) % (B / A) % (D / C) Total
Permanent
Employees , - . , - . - Male , - . , - . - Female , - . - . Total
Permanent
Workers , , . , , . - Male , , . , , . - Female . . Category On Skill upgradation No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) Total (D) On Health and
safety measures On Skill upgradation No. (E) % (E/D) No. (F) % (F/D) , . , . , , . , . Female , , . , . , . . Total , , . , . , , . , . Male , , . , . , , . , . Female , , . , . , , . , . Total , , . , . , , . , . Workers * Permanent as well as other than permanent employees and workers have been considered while arriving at the %. . Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker [GRI -]:
Category FY - FY - Total (A) No. (B) % (B / A) Total (C) No. (D) % (D / C) Male , , . , , . Female , , . . Total , , . , , . Male , . , , . Female . . Total , , . , , . The Whistle-Blower Policy establishes a vigil mechanism to report
any other violations of the Company policies/unethical activities.
These complaints are handled by the respective Ethics and
Governance Committees. FY - No. of employees /
workers in respective
category, who are
part of association(s)
or Union (B) On Health and
safety measures , Employees FY - Total (A) Male Issues/Complaints relating to sexual harassment are handled under
the Company's gender neutral POSH policy and by the respective
region-wise Internal Committees. .	Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity [GRI -, GRI -,
GRI -]: Total employees
/ workers in
respective
category (A) Category FY -* Employees * In FY -, no permanent worker availed parental leave. Yes Details of training given to employees and workers [GRI -, GRI -, GRI -]: Permanent workers* Male Permanent Workers . Workers . Health and safety management system [GRI -, GRI -, GRI -, GRI -]:
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/No).
If yes, the coverage such system? Yes, all Plants are ISO : certified for OHSMS by TuV Nord. b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine
basis by the entity? Across all manufacturing plants, Hazard Identification & Risk Assessment - Control (HIRA) is in place for each of the
Routine and Non-Routine activities performed in plants. In addition to HIRA, the Company also identifies work related
hazards through the following processes: . Process Hazard Analysis . Job Safety Analysis . Safety Inspections . Safety Surveys Internal & External Safety Audits . . Electrical Safety Audits MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT . Fire Safety Audits . Plant Level Safety Committee meetings . Department Level Safety committee meetings . Safety Observation Tours (SoT) . Pre-startup and shutdown procedures . Department Level Safety Sub Committee (SSC) meetings . Compliance Management System . 
Management of Change Process, Gap Audit, Safe Operating Procedures, Competency Training for employees &
Contractors, Employee Participation, Mechanical Integrity, Work Permit System, Incident Investigation, Compliance
Audits, Emergency Planning and Response c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from
such risks. (Y/N) Yes, the Company has a Plant Safety Committee under the Factories Act, at each Manufacturing Plant. d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
(Yes/No) Yes, annual medical examination conducted for all employees includes early identification and diagnosis of lifestyle diseases
(non-occupational diseases). The health index of the working population is derived from the annual medical examination
conducted every year. Other than lifestyle diseases, it includes addressal of sleep disorders and abnormal eating habits.
. Details of safety related incidents [GRI -, GRI -]:
Safety Incident/Number
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked) Total recordable work-related injuries No. of fatalities High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities) Category Monthly Safety Theme is driven across plants FY - FY - Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year Remarks Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year Remarks Working Conditions – – NA – – NA Health & Safety – – NA – – NA – – Workers . . Employees – – Health and safety practices . Workers Working Conditions . Employees – – Workers – Employees – – . Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions. [GRI -,
GRI -, GRI -] Workers – – . Walk through Safety audits and External & internal Safety audits for capturing unsafe conditions related to the
workplace and safety of employees and associates
. Fire Safety Audits . Electrical Safety audits . Behavior based safety implementation process . Review and closure of safety observations under Daily Work Management (DWM) . Environmental Monitoring, Monitoring and Measurement of workplace for Noise, Heat, Ventilation, Air & Water Sampling
is done as per scheduled program
. Critical Equipment and Machinery Checks . Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers [GRI -]: Employees .	Conducting training for Dexterity, Induction, Refresher and On job trainings followed by test on Safety, Occupational
Health & Environment
. . Conducting Plant level & Department Level Safety committee meetings, HIRA sheet, Job Safety Analysis (JSA) and
Safety Inspection FY - The Company has taken the following initiatives to ensure a safe & healthy work place: Safety Observation Tours (SoT) and Safety inspections as per schedule . Management reviews with Senior Management FY - . 
Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place. [GRI -, GRI -,
GRI -, GRI -] . . Assessments for the year [GRI -]:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties) HIRA - C is a dynamic document, updated and reviewed periodically for all activities and operations performed in the plant.
If there is any Near Miss and/ or Injury Incident, the HIRA sheet is revised with adequate control measures and is then
implemented for performing the respective activities.
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N). [GRI ]
A. Employees - Yes B. Workers - Yes . Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited
by the value chain partners. The Company has set a stringent Code of Conduct (CoC) for all supplier partners. This COC is signed by most of our suppliers.
The COC includes clauses like regulatory compliance, human rights, respect and dignity, no child or forced labor, minimum
wages, hours of work, accounting and reporting, bribery, corruption and money laundering and tax laws compliance. Also, we conduct third party onsite ESG audits at identified and prioritized suppliers. This audit covers compliance related
topics such as Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, ; Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, ;
Employees State Insurance Act, ; Minimum Wages Act, ; Payments of Wages Act, ; Payment of Bonus Act,
; Payment of Gratuity Act, ; Leave and workmen’s compensation for accidents, etc. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT  rovide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health /
P
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment [GRI -]: As per law, financial compensation was provided to the kin of the deceased. Compassionate employment was also offered
to the kin which was declined by them. Total no. of affected employees/ workers No. of employees/workers that are
rehabilitated and placed in suitable
employment or whose family members have
been placed in suitable employment FY - FY - FY - FY - Employees – – – – Workers – – – . Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management
of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No) [GRI -] Yes, for all employees transitioning into retirement, the Company offers comprehensive workshops and seminars focused
on post-retirement financial and health management. In case of separations, as applicable, severance packages are offered to departing employees. In certain cases, retiring
employees are hired back on a contract basis, in an advisory capacity. PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. [GRI -] The Company identifies its stakeholders based on the Value Chain of the businesses and how they influence the Company.
The Company also believes in being a neighbour of choice and works in consultation with neighbourhood communities in
and around the vicinity of its business operation as well as in some of the aspirational districts beyond the neighbourhood.
. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder
group. [GRI -, GRI -]
Stakeholder
Group Whether identified
as Vulnerable &
Marginalized Group
(Yes/No) Channels of communication
(Email, SMS, Newspaper,
Pamphlets, Advertisement,
Community Meetings, Notice
Board, Website), Other Frequency of
engagement (Annually/
Half yearly/ Quarterly /
others - please specify) Shareholders No Website, E-mail, dissemination
of information on the website
of the Stock Exchanges, Press
Releases, Annual Reports,
General Meetings, Institutional
Investors Meets Quarterly/Event-based Dissemination of information
having a bearing on the
performance/operations of
the Company including price
sensitive information, updating
Shareholders
on
various
statutory requirements with
respect to their shareholding
in the Company, addressing
shareholders’ queries at the
General Meetings, earnings call
with institutional investors/
analysts in respect of quarterly/
half-yearly/annual
financial
results Employees No Website, E-mail, Newsletters Regular Open
&
transparent
communication,
addressing
employees’
questions
&
clarifications Community No Community Meetings Regular Project progress and benefits Suppliers No Website, E-mail, Newsletters Regular Business
Model
Resilience,
Supply
Chain
Management,
Materials Sourcing & Material
Efficiency Dealers No Website, E-mail Regular Service Quality, Sustainability &
Creating Customer Delight Customer No Website, E-mail, Newsletters Regular Product Quality & Safety, Selling
Practices & Product Labelling,
Access & Affordability . Details on assessment of value chain partners [GRI -]: The Company conducts onsite safety audits of prioritized suppliers through renowned third party agencies. The audits
by the third party agencies cover various aspects such as occupational health, safety, employee well-being and working
conditions. The Company initiated safety audits in FY -. % suppliers by purchase value have been assessed until
31st March, of which .% suppliers were assessed in FY -. The Company also conducts ESG audits of suppliers which cover employee health and safety, employee well-being,
environmental impact, working conditions along with other environmental, social and governance aspects. The Company
initiated ESG audits in FY - and .% suppliers by purchase value were assessed during the year.
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices . Working Conditions . .  rovide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
P
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. [GRI -] There were no significant risks / concerns noticed during onsite supplier assessments with regards to occupational health,
safety and working conditions. However, for the supplier audits where minor concerns were observed related to safety at
the supplier location, the suppliers were asked to submit corrective action plans. The supplier performance against these
action plans was monitored through re-audits to ensure implementation of safety and good working condition practices. As a proactive measure, the Company also conducts training programs on health, safety and working condition to inculcate
awareness among suppliers. Purpose and scope of
engagement including key
topics and concerns raised
during such engagement MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT LEADERSHIP INDICATORS PRINCIPLE . Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and
social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
[GRI -, GRI -, GRI -] Engaging with stakeholders is crucial to ensure that the Company’s decisions and actions are in line with their expectations.
As a key driver of sustainable and responsible business practices, it fosters trust and collaboration, drives innovation and
manages risks effectively. Please refer to the Stakeholder Engagement Section of the Company’s Sustainability Report to
understand how the Company engages with diverse stakeholder groups to consult on economic, environmental and social
topics. The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee of the Board of Directors also has ESG under its purview.
The CSR Committee sets a direction for ESG and CSR Agenda for the Company basis the feedback received from various
stakeholder groups. The Company also has a Sustainability Council chaired by Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director & Chief
Executive Officer and also consists of all the Group Executive Board (GEB) members. The Council approves new initiatives
and monitors progress of integration of the ESG parameters in business and operations.
.  hether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and
W
social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these
topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. [GRI -]
 es, as part of the Company’s materiality assessment, environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that are significant
Y
and relevant to the Company’s operation and stakeholders are identified. The materiality process involves a collaborative
mapping exercise that engages all stakeholders in the identiﬁcation of key issues. Top management engagement and
stakeholder consultations lead to the development of a ﬁnal material assessment matrix and a strategic roadmap. Please
refer to the ‘rise for an equal world’ section of the Annual Report to learn more about measures the Company has
undertaken as part of the materiality assessment process that was undertaken. . 
Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
marginalized stakeholder groups. [GRI -] BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity [GRI
-, GRI -, GRI -, GRI -]:
FY -
Total (A) No. of
employees/
workers covered
(B) % (B / A) Total (C) No. of
employees/
workers covered
(D) % (D / C) Permanent , , . , , . Other than permanent . , . Total Employees , , . , , . Permanent , , . , , . Other than permanent , , . , , . Total Workers , , . , , . Category Employees Workers . Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format [GRI -, GRI -]: The key material issue in social capital is CSR management, where we focus on formulating community-centric policies and
implementing a sustainable strategy.
As per the Company’s CSR Policy and in alignment with the core purpose, the CSR mission is to:
• Empower Girls • Empower Women • Environment Conservation Some of our key initiatives include:
.	Project Nanhi Kali: The Company’s flagship CSR initiative has empowered underprivileged girls across India by supporting
their education.
.	Mahindra Pride Classroom: The Mahindra Pride Classrooms provides to hours training modules with the help of
expert trainers to final year female students studying in Government Colleges, ITIs and Polytechnic Institutes.
.	Prerna: The flagship intervention, PRERNA is an integral part of various projects which includes training and advisory
services like soil health, access to gender friendly farm equipment, linkages to Government. welfare support initiatives,
resource efficient agriculture methodologies for enhancing crop productivity. The project focusses on female farmers.
.	Water Conservation projects: Various water conservation projects across diverse geographies have been undertaken to
prevent soil erosion, improve soil health, and increase water tables through water structure creation and enhancement. FY - FY -
Category Total (A) FY - Equal to Minimum
Wage More than Minimum
Wage No. (B) % (B/A) No. (C) % (C/A) Total (D) Equal to Minimum
Wage More than Minimum
Wage No. (E) % (E/D) No. (F) % (F/D) Employees
Permanent , – . , . , – . , . Male , – . , . , – . , . Female , – . , . – . . Other than
permanent – . . , – . , . Male – . . – . . Female – . . – . . Permanent , – . , . , – . , . Male , – . , . , – . , . Female – . . – . . Other than
permanent , , . , . , . , . Male , , . , . , , . , . Female , , . , . , . , . Workers Note: Trainees hired under various schemes are paid wages in accordance with the wage level prescribed in the respective schemes MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT . Details of remuneration/salary/wages [GRI -, GRI -]: a. Median remuneration/ wages . Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers [GRI -, GRI -]:
FY - Male Female FY - Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year Remarks Filed during
the year Pending
resolution at
the end of year Remarks Number Median remuneration/ salary/
wages of respective category Number Median remuneration/ salary/
wages of respective category Board of Directors (BoD) Rs. . Cr. Rs. . Cr. Sexual Harassment NA – NA Key Managerial Personnel * Rs. . Cr. – – – NA – – NA Employees other than BoD and
KMP Discrimination at
workplace , Rs. . Cr. , Rs. . Cr. Child Labour – – NA – – NA Workers , Rs. . Cr. Rs. . Cr. Forced Labour/
Involuntary Labour – – NA – – NA Wages – – NA – – NA Other human rights
related issues – – NA – – NA * Includes Managing Director & CEO and Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) who are also covered in the number of directors on the Board. b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity:
FY - FY - .% .% Gross wages paid to females as % total wages . Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues
caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) [GRI -] . Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, : Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, (POSH) Yes, there is an Ethics helpline (ethics.mahindra.com) that addresses all such issues by the respective Ethics and Governance
Committees, which have a structured mechanism for investigation and closure. Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/ workers . Complaints on POSH upheld Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. [GRI -] FY - FY - .% .% The Company has policies and laid down processes against Sexual harassment and discrimination at workplace. . Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. [GRI -] Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) policy includes processes for addressing complaints relating to sexual harassment
at workplace: 
The Company has robust policies and processes against discrimination and harassment-free workplace. •	The Company has established Internal Committees in the respective regions to handle POSH cases.
•	Complaints can be made to the Internal Committee members through email or letter.
•	The POSH policy is gender neutral and ensures confidentiality of the complainant. The Company has a gender-neutral Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) policy and Whistle-blower policy with stringent
processes for maintaining complainant confidentially and against any kind of retaliation. The Company respects the privacy
of the complainant and practices a zero-tolerance approach against any deviation from this practice.
Both these policies cover the requirements of applicable laws and all bona fide complaints are assured utmost confidentiality. Ethics and Governance policies include processes for human rights grievance redressal practices: The Company’s policies allow reporting violations both anonymously and non-anonymously which have a detailed process
of investigation respectively. Further, malicious complaints and complaints made with wrongful intent may also face a
disciplinary action post the required investigation. •	The Company has implemented a detailed code of conduct and Whistle-blower policy as a guidance and redressal
mechanism to address any human rights grievances. . Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No) [GRI -, GRI -,
GRI & GRI -] •	The Complaint can be reported through third party ethics helpline (portal and toll-free number) or can be directly
addressed to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee. 
Yes, the Company has a policy on zero child labour, zero tolerance for discrimination at workplace and other human rights
violations which extends to the value chain as well. •	All the complaints are investigated and closed within the timeframe of days as statutorily required. •	The Whistle-blower policy strictly practices non-retaliation against the complainants and keeps their identity confidential.
•	The Company has established Ethics Committees consisting of senior officials who look into the complaints received,
investigations required and actions to be taken. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT PRINCIPLE . Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed
(by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour . Forced/involuntary labour . Sexual harassment . Discrimination at workplace . Wages . Others NA BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT
ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity [GRI -]:
Please specify unit FY - FY - Total electricity consumption (A) GJ - Giga Joules ,, ,, Total fuel consumption (B) GJ - Giga Joules – – Energy consumption through other sources (C) GJ - Giga Joules – – Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) GJ - Giga Joules ,, ,, Total electricity consumption (D) GJ - Giga Joules ,, ,, There have been no human rights grievances / complaints in FY - requiring the Company to modify its business
processes or introduce new business processes. Total fuel consumption (E) GJ - Giga Joules ,, ,, Energy consumption through other sources (F) GJ - Giga Joules – – . Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted. [GRI -, GRI -] Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources
(D+E+F) GJ - Giga Joules ,, ,, Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) GJ - Giga Joules ,, ,, Energy intensity per rupee of turnover (Total energy
consumption/ revenue from operations) GJ - Giga Joules/ Cr. rupee
of turnover . . Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted
for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* (Total energy
consumption/ revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) GJ/ Cr. rupee of turnover
adjusted for Purchasing
Power Parity . . Automotive Sector: . Automotive Sector: . . Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
the assessments at Question above.
NA
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
.  etails of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/
D
complaints. [GRI -, GRI -] The scope and coverage of Human Rights Due Diligence extends to the Company’s operations and its value chain partners.
. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities Act, ?
Yes . Details on assessment of value chain partners [GRI -, GRI -]: The Company also conducts ESG audit of suppliers which covers employee health and safety, employee well-being,
environmental impact, working conditions along with other environmental, social and governance aspects. The audit also
covers various social aspects such as child labor, human rights, minimum wage compliance etc. The Company initiated ESG
audits in FY - and assessed .% of suppliers by purchase value during the year.
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Child labour Discrimination at workplace From renewable sources From non-renewable sources GJ - Giga Joules/ Eq Vehicle
Energy intensity in terms of physical output . Wages GJ - Giga Joules/ Ton of
packaging Farm Sector: . Farm Sector: . Spares Business Unit: . Spares Business Unit: . – – – Energy intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited Other human rights related issues . GJ - Giga Joules/ Eq Tractor *	For India, PPP conversion factor is . and . for the years and respectively as per Implied PPP conversion rate available
at https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC/IND Forced/involuntary labour
Sexual harassment Parameter  rovide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
P
the assessments at Question above. There were no significant risks / concerns observed during third party ESG audits at the suppliers' end. As a proactive
measure, the Company also conducts training programs on human rights which is a part of the ESG training to create
awareness among suppliers. The Company always encourages suppliers to report violation of Code of Conduct (CoC) and any questionable behaviour
through the Company’s protected and confidential reporting channels mentioned in our website or by sending an email
to speakup2cpo@mahindra.com. All such communications are kept confidential and due action is taken as per procedures
laid down. . Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve
and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT
scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any
No . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Details of the following disclosures related to water [GRI -, GRI -, GRI -]: Parameter
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
(ii) Groundwater
(iii) Third party water
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water
(v) Others
Total volume of water withdrawal^ (in kilolitres)
(i + ii + iii + iv + v)
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Total water
consumption/ revenue from operations)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* (Total water consumption/
revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) .	Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, details of its coverage and implementation.
[GRI -, GRI -] Please specify unit FY - FY - Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres ,
,,
,,
–
, ,
,,
,,
–
,, Kilolitres ,, ,, Kilolitres
Kilolitres/ Cr. Rupee of
turnover
Kilolitres/ Cr. Rupee of
turnover adjusted for
Purchasing Power Parity ,, ,, . . . . Automotive Sector: . Automotive Sector: . •	
Domestic wastewater is recycled through STP (Sewage Treatment Plant) and process wastewater through ETP
(Effluent Treatment Plant). Each STP and ETP has got levels of treatment i.e. Primary, Secondary and Tertiary,
followed by advance treatment procedures like Reverse Osmosis (RO). Farm Equipment Sector:
. Farm Equipment Sector:
. •	Treated water is recycled for processing and cooling requirements. Spares Business Unit: . Spares Business Unit: . – – Kilolitres/ Eq Vehicle
Water intensity in terms of physical output Kilolitres/ Eq Tractor
Kilolitres/ Ton of packaging Water intensity (optional) - the relevant metric may be
selected by the entity – *	For India, PPP conversion factor is . and . for the years and respectively as per Implied PPP conversion rate available
at https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC/IND
^ Includes , KL & , KL Rainwater harvested and consumed in FY - & FY - respectively. Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name
of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited
. Provide the following details related to water discharged [GRI -]: Parameter
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment
(in kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water
– No treatment
– With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(ii) To Groundwater
– No treatment
– With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(iii) To Seawater
– No treatment
– With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third-parties
– No treatment
–	With treatment - please specify level of treatment
(Tertiary Treatment, through effluent treatment plant)
(v) Others
– No treatment
– With treatment - please specify level of treatment
Total water discharged (in kilolitres) Please specify unit FY - FY - Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres –
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
,
– –
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
,
– Kilolitres , , Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres
Kilolitres –
–
–
, –
–
–
, Note: During the year, ,, KL Water was Treated and Reused in processes Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited •	Yes, Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) is one of the main focus areas among all environment related initiatives. No water goes
out from the Company’s site boundary untreated, except rainwater which passes through dedicated storm water drains.
Water is recovered and recycled in the manufacturing process, leaving behind only solid residues that are managed and
disposed of safely, thus fulfilling all the process requirements needed for ZLD certification. All the manufacturing plants
of the Company are ZLD certified, except one.
•	Most of the plants have recharging pits for injecting rainwater to deep aquifers.
•	Though the Company relies more heavily on freshwater, recycled water is, and will continue to be, important for the
Company to secure enough water to manufacture vehicles and parts. The Company recycled % of fresh water
through wastewater recycling plants. . Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity [GRI -]: Parameter Please specify unit FY - FY - NOx tCO2e . . SOx tCO2e . . Particulate matter (PM) tCO2e . . Persistent organic pollutants (POP) tCO2e – – Volatile organic compounds (VOC) tCO2e – – Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) tCO2e – – Others NA – – Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited
.	Details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope and Scope emissions) & its intensity [GRI -, GRI -,
GRI -, GRI--]:
Parameter Unit FY - FY - Total Scope emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO ,
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) tCO2e , , Total Scope emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO ,
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) tCO2e ,, ,, Total Scope and Scope emissions intensity per rupee
of turnover (Total Scope and Scope GHG emissions/
Revenue from operations) tCO2e/ Cr. Rupee of
turnover . . Total Scope and Scope emissions intensity per rupee
of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)*
(Total Scope and Scope GHG emissions/ Revenue from
operations adjusted for PPP) tCO2e/ Cr. Rupee of
turnover adjusted for
Purchasing Power Parity . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Parameter Unit Total Scope and Scope emissions intensity in terms of
physical output FY - FY - FY - FY - Auto Sector: . Auto Sector: . Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) Farm Sector: . Farm Sector: .
Spares Business Units:
. – Paint sludge ,. ,. tCO2e/ Ton of packaging Spares Business Units:
. – Phosphate sludge . . – ETP Sludge . . – – – – Other (Oil, oil-soaked waste, grinding mud, hazardous waste containers etc.) ,. ,. tCO2e/ Eq Vehicle
tCO2e/ Eq Tractor Total Scope and Scope emission intensity (optional) - the
relevant metric may be selected by the entity * For India, PPP conversion factor is . and . for the years and respectively as per Implied PPP conversion rate available
at https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC/IND Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited
. Parameter Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by composition i.e., by materials
relevant to the sector)
– Foundry sand ,. ,. – Metal scrap (Aluminum, Material Steel, Copper, Steel etc) ,. ,. – Other (Cardboard, wood, food waste etc.) ,. ,. ,, ,, Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H) Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, details. [GRI -] Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (Total waste generated / Revenue from operations) . . •	Yes, the Company is committed to becoming Carbon Neutral by . It is also committed Science Based Targets (SBT)
to de-carbonize its growth, thus contributing to keeping global temperature rise below degrees Celsius as per Paris
Accord . Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)* (Total waste generated/
Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) . . Auto Sector:
. Auto Sector:
. •	The Company has a robust roadmap for achieving these commitments through improvement in energy efficiency and
adoption of renewable energy. Waste intensity in terms of physical output
(MT/ Eq Vehicle, MT/ Eq Tractor, MT/ Ton of packaging) Farm Sector:
. Farm Sector:
. Spares Business
Units: . Spares Business
Units: . – – • Few of the initiatives to reduce Green House Gas emission are mentioned below: o Adoption of Renewable energy through solar and windmills o Adoption of clean energy i.e., through switching over from HSD to PNG o Replacement of conventional air circulators with BLDC technology air circulators o Radiant cooling system to optimize the HVAC operating load o Waste intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled ,,. ,. (ii) Re-used ,. – Replacement of old conventional lights with LEDs (iii) Other recovery operations ,. ,. Total ,, , o Installation of energy efficient air compressor o Replacement of old motors with premium efficiency IE3 motors o Installation of Energy efficient inverter split ACs o Installation of auto shut off valves for compressed air o Waste heat recovery from air compressors o Installation of IT guns for spot welding Total For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste .	Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format [GRI -, GRI -, GRI,
GRI -, GRI --, GRI -]:
Parameter FY - FY - Plastic waste (A) ,. ,. E-waste (B) . . Bio-medical waste (C) . . Construction and demolition waste (D) . . Battery waste (E) . . – – Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes) Radioactive waste (F) (i) Incineration ,. ,. (ii) Landfilling ,. ,. (iii) Other disposal operations . . , , * For India, PPP conversion factor is . and . for the years and respectively as per Implied PPP conversion rate available
at https://www.imf.org/external/datamapper/PPPEX@WEO/OEMDC/IND Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT . Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted
by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the
practices adopted to manage such wastes. [GRI -, GRI -]
•	The Company has a robust waste management process and aims to be Zero Waste to Landfill certified for all its sites
by . LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres) [GRI -, GRI -]:
(i) Name of the area Jaipur Mohali Pithampur Chennai (ii) Nature of operations Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing •	The Company’s approach to waste management is that of a circular economy aimed at eliminating waste and the
continual use of resources. In a circular economy, waste materials and energy become input for other processes or as
regenerative resources for nature. (iii) Water withdrawal,
consumption and discharge in
the following format: •	The Company is committed to responsible disposal as per all applicable norms, leading to better ecosystems. When the
waste diversion rate for any company is % or more then it can be declared as “Zero Waste to Landfill”. Please
specify
unit Parameter Total FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) •	Landfill diversion can occur through recycling which can include glass, paper, metal, plastic, textile, or electronics
(E-Waste), lead batteries etc. Water withdrawal by source
(in kilolitres) •	Organic Waste can be diverted to biological treatment through which the waste is reused. Another method is the
thermal treatment (incineration) with the generation of power. Surface water Kilolitres – – – – – – – – Groundwater Kilolitres – ,, ,, – – – – ,, Sent to third-parties Kilolitres , , - ,, . Seawater /
desalinated water Kilolitres – – – – – – – – Others Kilolitres – , – – Total volume of
water withdrawal
(in kilolitres) Kilolitres , , ,, ,, . Total volume of
water consumption
(in kilolitres) Kilolitres , , ,, ,, Water intensity per
rupee of turnover
(Water consumed /
turnover) Kilolitres/
Cr. rupees
of turnover - . . Water intensity per
rupee of turnover
adjusted for
Purchasing Power
Parity (PPP)* (Water
consumed / turnover
adjusted for PPP) Kilolitres/
Cr. rupees
of turnover
adjusted
for
Purchasing
Power
Parity
(PPP) - . . Water intensity
(optional) - the
relevant metric may
be selected by the
entity - - - - •	Hazardous waste such as paint sludge, oily cotton waste can be diverted to coprocessing operation, which can be
reused as a resource (fuel) for cement industries. It can be also recycled as raw material.
•	Food waste generated at manufacturing plants are moved to the biogas plant for biogas generation. All the non-hazardous
waste, which is generated inside the plant like metal, non-metal parts are being recycled.
•	Implementing “Zero Waste to Landfill” program resulted in not only environmental benefit but also in business benefit.
The Company started looking at all the Company’s waste as a valuable resource and started converting it into wealth.
This is also called Waste Circular Economy in which the Company’s waste is used as a resource for someone.
. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries,
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental
approvals / clearances are required, please specify details [GRI -]:
S.
No. Location of
operations/offices Type of operations – NA NA Whether the conditions of environmental
approval / clearance are being complied
with? (Y/N)
NA .	Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in
the current financial year [GRI , GRI -, GRI -]:
Name and brief
details of project EIA Notification No. NA NA Date NA Whether
conducted by
independent
external agency
(Yes / No) Results communicated in
public domain (Yes / No) NA NA Relevant Web link Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres) NA .	Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, details of all such non-compliances [GRI -]:
Yes S.
No. Specify the law / regulation
/ guidelines which was not
complied with Provide details of
the non-compliance – NA NA Any fines / penalties / action taken by
regulatory agencies such as pollution
control boards or by courts Corrective action
taken, if any NA NA (i) Into Surface water Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - No treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - With treatment please specify
level of treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – (ii) Into Groundwater Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - No treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - With treatment please specify level
of treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT . (i) Name of the area Jaipur Mohali Pithampur Chennai (ii) Nature of operations Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing (iii) Water withdrawal,
consumption and discharge in
the following format:
Parameter Please
specify
unit FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) FY
-
(Previous
Financial
Year) Sr.
No. Water withdrawal by source
(in kilolitres)
(iii) Into Seawater Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - No treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - With treatment please specify level
of treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – (iv) Sent to thirdparties Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - No treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - With treatment please specify level
of treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – (v) Others Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - No treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – - With treatment please specify level
of treatment Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – Total water
discharged
(in kilolitres) Kilolitres – – – – – – – – – – Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited
. Details of total Scope emissions & its intensity [GRI -, GRI -]:
Parameter Unit FY - FY - Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent ,,, ,,, Metric tonnes of CO2
equivalent/ per Cr. rupees
of turnover . . – – – Total Scope emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO ,
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Total Scope emissions per rupee of turnover Total Scope emission intensity (optional) - the relevant
metric may be selected by the entity Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited
.	With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question of Essential Indicators above, provide
details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and
remediation activities. [GRI -, GRI -]
Not Applicable If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, details of the same as well
as outcome of such initiatives [GRI -]: Total FY
-
(Current
Financial
Year) Initiative undertaken Details of the initiative
(Web-link, if any, may be provided
along-with summary) Outcome of the initiative Adoption of renewable energy - Group
Captive solar MWp Group Captive Solar Project was implemented for
Reduction of GHG emissions &
Maharashtra plants, which is expected to generate million Reduction in energy costs
Units a year. The project was commissioned on 1st April Adoption of renewable energy - Rooftop
Solar In past - years, MWp rooftop solar projects have been
implemented in totality across the manufacturing sites of the
Company. Reduction of GHG emissions &
Reduction in energy costs Adoption of renewable energy - Windmill The Company has implemented . MW windmills for captive
consumption in Maharashtra (through own capex). Reduction of GHG emissions &
Reduction in energy costs Energy efficient blower for paint shop In paint shops, high energy is consumed by the conventional
blowers. This has been replaced with energy efficient EC
(electronically computed) motors. This motor consumes around
% less energy compared to conventional fans. These fans
were installed at Nasik, Chakan and Rudrapur plants in the
past years. Also the Company has replaced around air
ciculators/Fan with BLDC tech fans which saves more energy. Reduction of GHG emissions &
Reduction in energy costs Wastewater recycling At Chakan and Kandivali plants of Auto division, a new
containerized reverse osmosis plant is installed which treats
the STP & ETP treated water and converts wastewater into
fresh water with potable quality water. The permeated water
is used again for processes and cooling tower. Saving freshwater withdrawal Optimizing plastic in packaging Carton boxes are converted into re-usable packaging material
with the help of a shredder. Due to this initiative, plastic
packaging has been reduced. Plastic waste reduction .	Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in words/ web link. The Company has prepared an Onsite Emergency Plan (OEP) / Disaster Control Plan (DCP). This Emergency preparedness
and response plan for manufacturing unit also includes all the risks and emergencies associated with manufacturing
operations. The plan also contains processes towards its mitigation for these emergencies and this OEP plan is subject to
regularly conducted mock drills. All these mock drills are scheduled as per the annual calendar. Details of all the external
as well as internal responsible stakeholders that are to be contacted in emergency situations are readily available with their
respective contact numbers along with respective responsibility communication matrix. All emergency contact numbers for nearby hospitals and applicable Government Agencies are provided in the OEP/DCP.
Designated assembly points considering the safety of the given headcount on a day-to-day basis are mentioned in the plan.
Duration of each mock drill is recorded, so as to increase the effectiveness and decrease the time during each iteration.
Scenario analysis with high-risk priority number (RPN) emergency and maximum severity is conducted in presence of
government authorities and Mutual Aid Response Group (MARG) to demonstrate effectiveness.
.  isclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What
D
mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard. [GRI -] There were no significant risks / concerns noticed during onsite supplier assessments with regards to adverse environmental
impact. As a proactive measure, the Company also conducts training programs on environmental impact and sustainability to
inculcate awareness among suppliers.
.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for
environmental impacts. [GRI -, GRI -] The Company has initiated environmental impact assessment in FY - through on-site ESG Audits, and assessed .%
of suppliers by purchase value during the year. So far, out of these assessed suppliers, not a single supplier with a significant
adverse impact on the environment has been identified. Further, in FY -, the Company will expand its scope and
conduct more audits. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT
IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
. a. ESSENTIAL INDICATORS
.	Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year. [GRI -, GRI -] Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. b.	List the top trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such
body) the entity is a member of/ affiliated to. [GRI -] Name and brief
details of project SIA notification No. Date of
notification Whether conducted by
independent external
agency (Yes/No) Results communicated in
public domain (Yes / No) Relevant Web Link NA NA NA NA NA NA S.
No. Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations Reach of trade and industry chambers/ associations (State/
National) The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India
(ASSOCHAM) National The Company did not start any greenfield project in the reporting year, and hence, no social impact assessments of projects
undertaken by the entity were required to be conducted as per applicable laws. Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCCI) State .	Information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity
[GRI -, GRI -]: Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) National Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) National Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) National .	Details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity,
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities. [GRI -, GRI -]
Name of authority Brief of the case Corrective action taken NA NA NA . The Company engages with a range
of stakeholders across Government,
Think Tanks, Climate Organizations,
Trade Associations and Diplomatic
Consulates to communicate its
corporate position, provide feedback
and address policy related issues
relevant to its businesses. The
Company’s approach is guided by
its Code of Conduct which requires
maintaining ethical business standards,
anti‑bribery and anti-corruption. Only
authorised personnel can engage in
commenting on political process or in
policy debate Method resorted for such advocacy Membership of leading industry
associations such as CII, FICCI and
ASSOCHAM and industry bodies
such as SIAM; active participation in
relevant Committees and Roundtables,
stakeholder consultation and providing
verbal and written proposals to
Central and State Government
departments. The Company operates
with the principle of co-operating with
Government, Chambers of Commerce
and Trade Associations in matters
concerning the industry, to promote,
protect and enhance the Company’s
business interests. Whether
information
available in public
domain? (Yes/No)
No District No. of Project
Affected Families
(PAFs) % of PAFs covered
by R&R Amounts paid to
PAFs in the FY
(In INR) - NA NA NA NA NA NA The Company did not start any greenfield project in the reporting year, and hence, no community group was rehabilitated and
resettled for any project. Therefore, the question is not applicable. .	Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers [GRI -]: The Company pursues an active Public Affairs agenda by engaging with a range of stakeholders across Government, Think
Tanks, Climate Organizations, Trade Associations and Diplomatic Consulates to communicate its corporate position, address
policy related issues that are relevant to its strategy and help build thought leadership.
Public policy advocated State NA Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity [GRI -, GRI ]: S.
No. Name of Project
for which R&R is
ongoing .	Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community [GRI -, GRI -, GRI -] LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
. S. No. Frequency of Review
Web Link, if
by Board (Annually/
Half yearly/ Quarterly/
Others – please specify)
NA NA FY - FY - Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers % % Directly from within India % % .	Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid to persons employed (including employees or workers employed
on a permanent or non-permanent/ on contract basis) in the following locations as % of total wage cost
Location FY - FY - Rural .% .% Semi-urban .% .% Urban .% .% Metropolitan .% .% (Location categorized as per RBI Classification System – rural/ semi-urban/ urban/ metropolitan) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT LEADERSHIP INDICATORS . . S.
No. Details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
(Reference: Question of Essential Indicators above) [GRI -, GRI -, GRI -]:
Details of negative social impact identified No. of persons
benefitted from CSR
Projects % of beneficiaries
from vulnerable and
marginalized groups Women empowerment - Mahindra Pride ,, . NA Women empowerment - Skill development in Apparel Sector , . Women empowerment - Skill development in Health Sector/EET , . Women empowerment - Farm Skilling , . Water Management Green Guardian Swaraj , . Integrated Village Development FD - Zaheerabad , . Integrated Village Development AD - NSK , . Amount spent
(In INR) Promotion of Education (Including scholarships) - FD Rudrapur , . Integrated Village Development AD - IGT , . Moga, Firozpur ,,, Integrated women empowerment – AD Chakan , . Information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by
government bodies [GRI -, GRI -]: S.
No. CSR Project The Company did not start any greenfield project in the reporting year, and hence, no social impact assessments of projects
undertaken by the entity were required to be conducted as per applicable laws.
. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects [GRI -, GRI -]: Corrective action taken NA State Aspirational District Punjab Tamil Nadu Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar ,, Promotion of Education (Scholarships) FD - S&CO , . Jharkhand Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Palamu Godda, Gumla, Hazaribag, Khunti, Latehar, Lohardaga, Ramgarh,
Ranchi, West Singhbhum ,,, Crop Diversification project (Telangana) Krish-e . Integrated Village Development FD - Jaipur . Skill Development – FD-NGP . Bihar Aurangabad, Begusarai, Banka, Gaya, Jamui, Katihar, Khagaria, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, Sheikhpura,
Purnea, Sitamarhi ,, Odisha Dhenkanal, Kalahandi, Koraput, Kandhamal, Malkangiri ,, Uttar Pradesh Chandauli, Bahraich Chitrakoot, Sonbhadra, Fatehpur, Shravasti ,,, Andhra Pradesh YSR Kadapa, Alluri Sitharamaraju ,,, Jammu & Kashmir Kupwara, Baramula ,, . Maharashtra Gadchiroli, Nandurbar, Osmanabad, Washim ,, BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER . Assam Barpeta , ESSENTIAL INDICATORS Telangana Bhadradri- Kothagudem, Bhupalpally ,, .	Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. [GRI -, GRI -] Uttarakhand Dham Singh Nagar, Haridwar ,, The Mahindra Relationships Center (MRC) manages Toll free numbers, Social Media Platforms and an email address through
which consumers can raise their complaints. . Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity
(in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge [GRI -]: S.
No. Intellectual Property based on
traditional knowledge Owned/ Acquired (Yes/No) Benefit shared (Yes / No) Basis of calculating
benefit share – NA NA NA NA Not Applicable since the Company does not own and has not acquired any intellectual property based on traditional knowledge.
.	Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related
disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved. [GRI -]
Name of authority Brief of the Case Corrective action taken NA NA NA Not Applicable since the Company does not own and has not acquired any intellectual property based on traditional knowledge. PRINCIPLE .	Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about
[GRI -]:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product . Safe and responsible usage . Recycling and/or safe disposal . . Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following [GRI -]:
FY -
Received
during the
year Pending
resolution at
end of year Data privacy – Advertising
Cyber-security
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices –
–
–
– Unfair Trade Practices – – , , Other (Customer Complaints) FY -
Remarks Received
during the
year Pending
resolution at
end of year Remarks – NA – – NA –
–
–
– NA
NA
NA –
–
–
– –
–
–
– NA
NA
NA
NA – – NA , , – NA
NA
– . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues [GRI -]:
Number Reasons for recall Voluntary recalls Monocoque SUV - Potential risk of
abrasion cut of wiring loom that may
lead to elevated heat loads due to excess
current drawn. Forced recalls – NA .	Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a
web-link of the policy. [GRI -, GRI -, GRI ]
Yes, https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/policies-and-documents
.	Details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services; cyber
security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory
authorities on safety of products / services. [GRI -]
Not Applicable
. Provide the following information relating to data breaches [GRI -]:
a. Number of instances of data breaches Nil
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers NA
c. Impact, if any, of the data breaches NA INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To,
The Board of Directors,
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited.
Mumbai, India Introduction
DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNV’), has been
commissioned by Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (Corporate
Identity Number L65990MH1945PLC004558, hereafter referred
to as ‘M&M Ltd or ‘the Company’) to undertake an independent
assurance of the Company’s disclosures in Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report (hereafter referred as ‘BRSR’). The
disclosures include non-financial BRSR Core indicators as per
Annexure I of SEBI circular dated July . Reporting standard/framework
The disclosures have been prepared by the company. in reference
to:
• BRSR Core – Framework for assurance and ESG disclosures
for value chain as per SEBI (Securities and Exchange Board of
India) Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-/P/CIR//
dated July , . • BRSR reporting guidelines (Annexure II) as per SEBI Circular
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-/P/CIR// dated May ,
, and incorporated Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD2/CIR/P// dated July , . LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
.	Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link,
if available). [GRI -] 
Information on products and services of the Company can be accessed through: https://www.mahindra.com/mahindraservices-and-businesses
.	Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
[GRI , GRI -] An owner's manual is made and is available for every product. This manual is shared with the customer at the time of
delivery, which gives the customer all the relevant information for responsible usage of the product. In the case of Tractors,
the installation is done at the customers' site wherein the customer is made aware of routine maintenance, Do's & Dont's
along with an explanation of the Warranty & Service policy.
.	Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
Not Applicable
.	Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws?
(Yes/No/Not applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. [GRI -]
No Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services
of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
Yes • Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and
Reporting Standard. • ISO -: - Specification with guidance at the
organization level for quantification and reporting of
greenhouse gas emissions and removals. Assurance Methodology/Standard
This assurance engagement has been carried out in accordance
with DNV’s VeriSustain protocol, V6., which is based on our
professional experience and international assurance practice, and
the international standard in Assurance Engagements, ISAE (revised) - Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of
Historical Financial Information. DNV’s Verisustain Protocol has been
developed in accordance with the most widely accepted reporting
and assurance standards. Apart from DNV’s Verisustain protocol, DNV team has also followed
ISO - - Specification with guidance for the verification and
validation of greenhouse gas statements; ISO - Environmental
management - Water footprint - Principles, requirements, and
guidelines to evaluate indicators with respect to Greenhouse gases
and water disclosures respectively. Intended User
The intended user of this assurance statement is the Management
of the company (‘the Management’). Level of Assurance
Reasonable Level of assurance for BRSR Core Indicators (Ref:
Annexure I of SEBI circular); and Responsibilities of the Management of
M&M Ltd and of the Assurance Provider
The Management of the company has the sole responsibility for
the preparation of the BRSR Report and is responsible for all
information disclosed in the BRSR Core and BRSR Report. The
Company is responsible for maintaining processes and procedures
for collecting, analyzing and reporting the information and also,
ensuring the quality and consistency of the information presented
in the Report. The Company is also responsible for ensuring the
maintenance and integrity of its website and any referenced BRSR
disclosures on their website.
In performing this assurance work, DNV’s responsibility is to the
Management of the Company; however, this statement represents
our independent opinion and is intended to inform the outcome of
the assurance to the stakeholders of the Company. Scope, Boundary and Limitations
Scope
The scope of our engagement includes independent reasonable
level of assurance of ‘BRSR Core indicators’ (Ref: Annexure I of
SEBI Circular) for Financial Year (FY) -.
Boundary of our assurance work:
• Reasonable assurance of BRSR Core indicators: Boundary
covers the performance of M&M Ltd operations that fall
under the direct operational control of the Company’s Legal
structure. Based on the agreed scope with the Company, the
boundary of reasonable assurance covers the operations of
M&M Ltd across all locations. Limitation(s):
We performed a reasonable Level of assurance for the BRSR Core
for the BRSR reporting based on our assurance methodology
VeriSustain, v06.
The assurance scope has the following limitations:
• • The assurance engagement considers an uncertainty of ±%
based on materiality threshold for estimation/measurement
errors and omissions.
DNV has not been involved in evaluation or assessment of
any financial data/performance of the company. DNV opinion
on specific BRSR Core indicators (ref- for total revenue from
operations; Principle , Question (c) of Essential Indicators
for Spending on measures towards well-being of employees
and workers – cost incurred as a % of total revenue of the
company; Principle , Question of Essential Indicators,
Principle , Question of Essential Indicators and Principle
, Question of Essential Indicators) relies on the third party
audited financial reports of the Company. DNV does not take
any responsibility of the financial data reported in the audited
financial reports of the Company. • The assessment is limited to data and information within the
defined Reporting Period. Any data outside this period is not
considered within the scope of assurance. • Data outside the operations specified in the assurance
boundary is excluded from the assurance, unless explicitly
mentioned otherwise in this statement. • The assurance does not cover the Company’s statements that
express opinions, claims, beliefs, aspirations, expectations,
aims, or future intentions. Additionally, assertions related to
Intellectual Property Rights and other competitive issues are
beyond the scope of this assurance. • The assessment does not include a review of the Company’s
strategy or other related linkages expressed in the Report.
These aspects are not within the scope of the assurance
engagement. • The assurance does not extend to mapping the Report with
reporting frameworks other than those specifically mentioned.
Any assessments or comparisons with frameworks beyond
the specified ones are not considered in this engagement. • MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT Aspects of the Report that fall outside the mentioned scope
and boundary are not subject to assurance. The assessment
is limited to the defined parameters. • • The assurance engagement does not include a review of legal
compliances. Compliance with legal requirements is not within
the scope of this assurance, and the Company is responsible
for ensuring adherence to relevant laws. . • The assurance engagement is based on the assumption
that the data and information provided by the Company are
complete, sufficient and authentic. • Assurance process
As part of the assurance process, a multi-disciplinary team of
assurance specialists performed assurance work for selected sites
of M&M Ltd. We carried out the following activities:
. Reviewed the disclosures under BRSR Core, encompassing the
framework for assurance consisting of a set of Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) under ESG attributes. The format of BRSR
Core used a basis of reasonable level of assurance. . Evaluation of the design and implementation of key systems,
processes, and controls for collecting, managing and reporting
the BRSR Core indicators. . Assessment of operational control and reporting boundaries. . Seek extensive evidence across all relevant areas, ensuring
a detailed examination of BRSR Core indicators. Engaged
directly with internal stakeholders/ data owners to gather
insights and corroborative evidence for each disclosed
indicator. . Interviews with selected senior managers responsible for
management of disclosures and review of selected evidence
to support environmental KPIs and metrics disclosed the
Report. We were free to choose interviewees and interviewed
those with overall responsibility of monitoring, data collation
and reporting the selected indicators. . DNV audit team conducted on-site audits for data testing and
also, to assess the uniformity in reporting processes and also,
quality checks at different locations of the Company. Sites
for data testing and reporting system checks were selected
based on the percentage contribution each site makes to
the reported indicator, complexity of operations at each
location (high/low/medium) and reporting system within the
organization. Sites selected for audits are listed in Annex-II. . Conduct a comprehensive examination of key material aspects
within the BRSR Core framework supporting adherence to
the assurance based on applicable principles plus specified
data and information. DNV teams conducted the:
Verification of the data consolidation of reported
performance disclosures in context to the Principle of
Completeness.
Verification of the consolidated reported performance
disclosures in context to the Principle of Completeness
as per VeriSustainTM for reasonable level verification for
the disclosures. Conclusion
Reasonable level of Assurance- BRSR Core Indicators
Based on our review and procedures followed for reasonable
level of assurance, DNV is of the opinion that, in all material
aspects, the BRSR Core indicators (as listed in Annex I of this
statement) for FY - are reported in accordance with
reporting requirements outlined in BRSR Core (Annexure I of
SEBI Circular dated July ).
Statement of Competence and Independence
DNV applies its own management standards and compliance
policies for quality control, which are based on the principles
enclosed within ISO IEC : – Conformity assessment –
General principles are requirements for validation and verification
bodies, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of
quality control including documented policies and procedures
regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional
standards, and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
We have complied with the DNV Code of Conduct1 during the
assurance engagement and maintain independence wherever
required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work
was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance
professionals. During the reporting period i.e FY -,
DNV, to the best of its knowledge, was not involved in any
non‑audit/non-assurance work with the Company and its Group
entities which could lead to any Conflict of Interest. DNV was not
involved in the preparation of any statements or data included
in the Report except for this Assurance Statement for internal
use of M&M Ltd. DNV maintains complete impartiality toward
stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. We did
not provide any services to M&M Ltd in the scope of assurance for the reporting period that could compromise the independence
or impartiality of our work.
Purpose and Restriction on Distribution and Use
This assurance statement, including our conclusion has been
prepared solely for the exclusive use and benefit of management
of the Company and solely for the purpose for which it is provided.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, DNV does not assume
responsibility to anyone other than the Company for DNV’s
work or this assurance statement. The usage of this assurance
statement shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the
contract between DNV and M&M Ltd and DNV does not accept
any liability if this assurance statement is used for an alternative
purpose from which it is intended, nor to any third party in respect
of this assurance statement. No part of this assurance statement
shall be reproduced, distributed or communicated to a third party
without prior written consent.
For DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited
Tushar Chaudhari
Lead Verifier,
Sustainability Services,
DNV Business Assurance
India Private Limited, India. Anjana Sharma
Assurance Reviewer,
Sustainability Services,
DNV Business Assurance India
Private Limited, India. Sameeksha Patil (Verifier)
Roshni Sarage (Verifier)
Varsha Bohiya (Verifier)
24th June, , Pune, India.
DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV – Business
Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and
training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance.
www.dnv.com DNV Corporate Governance & Code of Conduct - https://www.dnv.com/about/in-brief/corporate-governance.html MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT ANNEX I
Verified Data
Sr.
No. Attribute Parameter Unit of Measures Green-house gas (GHG)
footprint Greenhouse
gas emissions may
be measured in
accordance with
the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol: A Corporate
Accounting and
Reporting Standard* Total Scope emissions
Total Scope emissions
Total Scope and Scope emission intensity
per rupee of turnover MT of CO2e
MT of CO2e
MT CO2e/ Revenue
from operations in ₹ Cr Total Scope and Scope emission
intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for
Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
Total Scope and Scope emission intensity
in terms of physical output MT CO2e/ Revenue
from operations in ₹
Cr adjusted to PPP
MT CO2e/ Water footprint Total water consumption KL Water consumption intensity KL / Revenue from
operations in ₹ Cr.
adjusted for PPP
KL/ Revenue from
operations in ₹ Cr
KL . Giga Joules (GJ)
In % terms ,,
. Energy footprint Embracing circularity
- details related to
waste management by
the entity Water Discharge by destination and levels of
Treatment
Total energy consumed
% of energy consumed from renewable
sources
Energy intensity Plastic waste (A)
E-waste (B)
Bio-medical waste (C)
Construction and demolition waste (D)
Battery waste (E)
Radioactive waste (F)
Other Hazardous waste
Paint Sludge
Phosphate sludge
ETP Sludge
Other (Oil, oil-soaked waste, grinding mud,
hazardous waste containers etc.)
Total Hazardous Waste (G)
Non-hazardous waste
Foundry sand
Metal Scrap ((Aluminum, Material Steel, Copper,
Steel etc)
Others (Cardboard, wood, food waste etc.)
Total Non-Hazardous Waste (H)
Total (A + B + C + D + E + F + G+ H)
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover from
operations Assured Values Sr.
No. Attribute ,
,
. , , MT
MT ,
, MT , MT
MT
Total waste generated/
Revenue from
operations in ₹ Cr. ,
,
. . Recycled MT , (ii) Re-used MT , (iii) Other recovery operations MT , Incineration MT , (ii) Landfilling MT , (iii) Other disposal options MT Total MT , (i) Enhancing Employee
Wellbeing and Safety Spending on measures towards well- being of In % terms
employees and workers – cost incurred as a %
of total revenue of the company
Details of safety related incidents for
employees and workers (including contractworkforce e.g. workers in the company’s
construction sites) , . Nil . . For each category of waste generated, total
waste disposed by nature of disposal method . MT Total waste generated
/ Revenue from
operations in ₹ Cr.
adjusted for PPP (i) , MT Waste intensity per rupee of turnover
adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) Assured Values Each category of waste generated, total
waste recovered through recycling, re-using or
other recovery operations . . Unit of Measures Waste intensity (optional) – Auto Sector: .
Farm Sector: .
Spares Business Units: .
,, GJ/ Revenue from
operations in ₹ Cr.
adjusted for PPP
GJ/ Revenue from
operations in ₹ Cr
MT
MT
MT
MT
MT
MT Parameter Enabling Gender
Diversity in Business . Number of Permanent
Disabilities Employees : Worker : Lost Time Injury
Frequency Rate
(LTIFR) (per one
million-person hours
worked) Employees : Worker : . No. of fatalities Employees : Worker : Gross wages paid to females as % of wages
paid In % terms . Complaints on POSH Total Complaints on
Sexual Harassment
(POSH) reported Complaints on POSH
as a % of female
employees / workers . Complaints on POSH
upheld Sr.
No. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY
A N D S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT ANNEX II
Attribute Parameter Enabling Inclusive
Development Input material sourced from following sources Directly sourced
as % of total purchases –and from within India from MSMEs/ small
producers (In %
terms – As % of total
purchases by value) Sourced directly from
within the district and
neighboring districts Job creation in smaller towns – Wages
paid to persons employed in smaller towns
(permanent or non-permanent/on contract)
as % of total wage cost Fairness in Engaging
with Customers and
Suppliers Open-ness of business Unit of Measures Assured Values Location
Rural . Semi-urban . Urban . Metropolitan . Instances involving loss / breach of data of
customers as a percentage of total data
breaches or cyber security events In % terms Total Loss/breach of Data of
Customers: %
Total Cyber Security
breaches: % Number of days of accounts payable (Accounts payable
*) / Cost of goods/
services procured Concentration of purchases & sales done with
trading houses, dealers, and related parties
Loans and advances & investments with
related parties Purchases from
trading houses as %
of total purchases . Number of trading
houses where
purchases are made
from Purchases from top trading houses as
% of total purchases
from trading houses . Sales to dealers /
distributors as % of
total sales . Number of dealers /
distributors to whom
sales are made Sales to top dealers / distributors
as % of total sales to
dealers / distributors Share of RPTs
(as respective % age) in Note: Purchases . Sales . Loans & advances . Investments . *	Calculation of Scope GHG emissions are based on conversion factors, California Air Resources Board emission factors for refrigerants, emission factors
considered in IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, IPCC sixth assessment report. Scope GHG emissions for Indian operations are
calculated based on the Grid Electricity EF - Central Electricity Authority, Govt. of India, CO2 baseline database for Indian Power Sector, version , December EF considered (including RES & Captive power injection into grid) is . kgCO2 per kWh. Sites selected for audits
S.no Site Location . Head office Mumbai . India plants Chakan, Kandivali, Rudrapur, Pithampur, Swaraj, Chennai, Nashik plant , . Sectors/Divisions Automotive Sector, Farm Division, Swaraj Division, Spare Business unit, -Wheeler division,
corporate office. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO M PA N Y
OV E RV I E W Financial Position at a Glance Summary of Operations
Rupees crores
As per Ind AS and Schedule III of
the Companies Act, Rupees crores As per
previous
GAAP and
Schedule III
of the
Companies
Act, As per Ind AS and Schedule III
of the Companies Act, As per
previous GAAP
and Schedule III
of the Companies
Act, Total Income , , , , , , , , , , Materials , , , , , , , , , , – – – – – – , , , , , , , , , , , Property, Plant and
Equipment and
Intangible Assets , , , , , , , , , , Investments , , , , , , , , , , Inventories , , , , , , , , , , Trade Receivable/
Debtors , , , , , , , , , , Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
expense , , , , , , , , , Other Non Current/
Current Assets , , , , , , , , , , Loss from investment related to subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures – – – – – – – – Borrowings and Lease
liabilities , , , , , , , , , , Other Expenses , , , , , , , , , , Exceptional items – (,) () (,) (,) () Profit before tax for the year , , , , , , , , , , Tax for the year , , , , , , , , , Non Current/Current
Liabilities and
Provisions
Deferred Tax
Liabilities/(Assets)
(Net) , , , , , , , , , , Excise Duty
Employee Benefits Expense
Finance Costs/Interest , , , , , () Balance profit , , , , , , , , , Equity Capital Dividend (including tax thereon) #, , , , , , Other Equity , , , , , , , , , , Equity Dividend (%) Net Worth , , , , , , , , , , Earnings Per Share (Rupees) ^ . . . . . . . . . . Book Value Per Share
(Rupees) . . . . . . + . . . . + Book Value Per Share is adjusted for Bonus Shares alloted in the ratio of : during December . Vehicles produced/purchased (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Vehicles sold (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Tractors produced (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Tractors sold (Units) ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ^ Adjusted for Bonus Shares alloted in the ratio of : during December .
# Proposed Dividend MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Financial Highlights EPS in Rs. PAT growth over Total Income (Rupees Crores) Total Income . PAT . . EPS (Rs.) PAT Total Income . . . . .
. .
.
. FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 FY2024 . .
. FY2020 . FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 FY2024 YoY PAT Trend Debt Equity Ratio Segmental Revenue
F- . Auto Investments
.% . Investment in Industrial Businesses
and Consumer Services
.% Farm
Equipment
.% Times .
. . . .
. . . . FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2023 FY2024 Farm Investments
.% Automotive
.% MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
 Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the standalone financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the “Company”) which comprise the standalone balance sheet as
at March , and the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in equity
and standalone statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including material accounting policies
and other explanatory information.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial statements give the
information required by the Companies Act, (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting
principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March , and its profit and other comprehensive income, changes
in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section () of the Act. Our responsibilities under those
SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of
the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that
are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements. Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial statements of
the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment assessment of certain long-term investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
See Note (d)(iv) to standalone financial statements
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Company has long-term investments in subsidiaries, joint
ventures and associates (collectively “the investments”) aggregating
Rs. , crores as at March . Our audit procedures included: The Company records the investments at cost less any provision for
impairment loss. Changes in business environment, including market or
economic environment, geopolitical situations and general inflationary
trends could have a significant impact on the valuation of certain
investments. Investments where an indication based on these factors
exists, are tested for impairment at the end of the reporting period.
The Company determines the recoverable value of such investments
and compares it to its carrying amount to determine impairment loss.
The recoverable value is determined basis following key assumptions:
• projected future cash inflows; • expected growth rate; discount rate; terminal growth rate; • comparison of price and market multiples The recoverable amount, which is the higher of the market value or
Value In Use (VIU) or fair value less cost of disposal of such investments
(FVLCS), is estimated and the impairment loss, if any, is recognised in
the statement of profit and loss and carrying amount of investments is
reduced to its recoverable amount. The impairment test is considered to
be a key audit matter considering the significant judgements required in
determining the key assumptions. •	Assessed the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of
key controls in respect of the Company’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models;
•	Obtained an understanding of various external factors impacting the
recoverable value of the respective investment as at the end of the
reporting period;
•	Involved valuation specialists, as applicable, to evaluate the
appropriateness of the valuation models used, assumptions such as
the discount rates used in VIU calculations and comparable companies
considered in the FVLCS model;
•	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash flows
such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation and
growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived data,
past performances, consistency with the Board approved investment
plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management; and
•	Assessed the adequacy of disclosures on key judgements, assumptions
and quantitative data with respect to impairment losses. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Impairment assessment of intangible assets currently under development in the Automotive cash generating unit
See Note (g) to standalone financial statements
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Company has identified its Automotive business segment as a
separate cash generating unit (‘Auto CGU’). The Company holds intangible
assets under development and tests its cash generating units (‘Auto
CGU’) for impairment at least annually. Our audit procedures included: For the purpose of the impairment test, the Company determines
recoverable value of the Auto CGU which is the higher of Value In
Use (VIU) or Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCS). The recoverable
value is dependent on certain assumptions and estimates of future
performance and management’s plans for continuation of the projects. •	Involved valuation specialists as applicable, to evaluate the
appropriateness of the valuation models including assumptions such
as the discount rates used in VIU calculations; On discontinuing individual projects under development, an impairment
loss relating to the specific project is recognised in the statement of
profit and loss.
Changes in business environment, including market or economic
environment, geopolitical situations and general inflationary trends
could have a significant impact on the valuation of the Auto CGU and
management’s plan for specific projects under development. This annual
impairment test is considered to be a key audit matter considering the
significant judgements required in determining the key assumptions. •	Tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key
controls in respect of the Company’s impairment assessment process,
including the approval of forecasts and valuation models; •	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash flows
such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation and
growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived data,
past performances, consistency with the Board approved investment
plans and knowledge of the industry;
•	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management; and
•	Evaluated the stage of development of the intangible assets,
judgments used for expected probable economic benefits and
associated expenditures, management plans for continuation of
projects and their assessment of feasibility of the projects. Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. The annual report is expected to be
made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to
those charged with governance and take necessary actions, as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the matters stated in Section () of the Act with respect to the
preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit / loss and other comprehensive
income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including
the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section of the Act. This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and for preventing and
detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively
for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Management and Board of Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
•	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and
perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. Under Section ()(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has
adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
•	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made
by the Management and Board of Directors.
•	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation
of standalone financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to
the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
•	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether
the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the standalone financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our
auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine
that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
.	As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of
Section () of the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs and of the Order, to the
extent applicable.
. A. As required by Section () of the Act, we report that: a.	We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary
for the purposes of our audit. b.	In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our
examination of those books except for the matter stated in the paragraph (B)(f) below on reporting under Rule (g) of the
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, . c.	The standalone balance sheet, the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the
standalone statement of changes in equity and the standalone statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in
agreement with the books of account. d.	In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section of the Act. e.	On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on April taken on record by the Board of
Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on March from being appointed as a director in terms of Section ()
of the Act. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S f.	The modification relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith are as stated in the
paragraph (A)(b) above on reporting under Section ()(b) and paragraph (B)(f) below on reporting under Rule (g) of
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, . g.	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Company and the
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure B”. B.	With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule of the Companies (Audit and
Auditors) Rules, , in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us: a.	The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at March on its financial position in its standalone
financial statements - Refer Note to the standalone financial statements. b.	The Company has made provision, as required under the applicable law or accounting standards, for material foreseeable losses,
if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note to the standalone financial statements. c.	There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by
the Company. d. (ii)	The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds have been received by the
Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (iii)	Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances,
nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and
(ii) of Rule (e), as provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material misstatement. e.	The final dividend paid by the Company during the year, in respect of the same declared for the previous year, is in accordance
with Section of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of dividend. As stated in Note to the standalone financial statements, the Board of Directors of the Company has proposed final dividend
for the year which is subject to the approval of the members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting. The dividend declared is
in accordance with Section of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend. Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Standalone Financial Statements
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March (Referred to in paragraph under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(i) f.	Based on our examination which included test checks, the Company has used accounting software for maintaining its books
of account which has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated throughout the year for
all relevant transactions recorded in the respective software except that the audit trail was not enabled at the database level
to log any direct data changes for such accounting software used for maintaining the books of account. Further, where audit
trail (edit log) facility was enabled and operated throughout the year for the accounting software, we did not come across any
instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with. (a) (i) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets. (d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during the year.
(e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there are no
proceedings initiated or pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions
Act, and rules made thereunder.
(ii) (a)	The inventory, except goods-in-transit and stocks lying with third parties, has been physically verified by the management during the year.
For stocks lying with third parties at the year-end, written confirmations have been obtained and for goods-in-transit subsequent evidence of
receipts has been linked with inventory records. In our opinion, the frequency of such verification is reasonable and procedures and coverage
as followed by management were appropriate. No discrepancies were noticed on verification between the physical stocks and the book records
that were more than % in the aggregate of each class of inventory
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of five crore rupees, in aggregate, from banks or financial institutions on the basis of
security of current assets. In our opinion, the quarterly returns or statements filed by the Company with such banks or financial institutions
are in agreement with the books of account of the Company. (iii)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company has
not given any security or advance in nature of loans to companies, firms, limited liability partnership or any other parties during the year. The
Company has made investments, provided guarantee and granted unsecured loans, to companies and other parties in respect of which the requisite
information is as below. The Company has not made investments, provided guarantees and granted loans in firms or limited liability partnership.
(a)	Based on the audit procedures carried on by us and as per the information and explanations given to us the Company has provided loans or
stood guarantee to any other entity as below:
Rs in crores
Particulars Guarantees Loans Subsidiaries* , Joint ventures* - - Associates* - Others* - Subsidiaries* , Joint ventures* - - Associates* - - Others* - Aggregate amount during the year In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the remuneration paid by the Company to its directors
during the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section of the Act. The remuneration paid to any director is not
in excess of the limit laid down under Section of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed other details under
Section () of the Act which are required to be commented upon by us. Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W- Place: Bengaluru
Date: May, (B) (b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has a regular programme of physical verification of its Property, plant and equipment by which all Property, plant and equipment are verified
once in three years. In accordance with this programme, no property, plant and equipment were verified during the year. In our opinion, this
periodicity of physical verification is reasonable having regard to the size of the Company and the nature of its assets. C.	With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section () of the Act: Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. ICAI UDIN: 24113156BKGFOM5032 (A)	The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of Property, Plant and
Equipment. (c)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the title deeds
of immovable properties (other than immovable properties where the Company is the lessee and the leases agreements are duly executed in
favour of the lessee) disclosed in the standalone financial statements are held in the name of the Company. (i)	The management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, other than as disclosed in the Note to
the standalone financial statements, no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or
share premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person(s) or entity(ies), including
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary
shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of
the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. *As per the Companies Act, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S (b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and based on the audit procedures conducted by us, in our opinion the investments
made and guarantees provided during the year and the terms and conditions of the grant of loans and guarantees provided during the year
are, prima facie, not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
(c)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, in the case of
loans given, in our opinion the repayment of principal and payment of interest has been stipulated and the repayments or receipts have been
regular. Further, the Company has not given any advance in the nature of loan to any party during the year.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there is no
overdue amount for more than ninety days in respect of loans given. Further, the Company has not given any advances in the nature of loans
to any party during the year. Name of the statute Nature of
the dues Central Excise Act, Duty of
Excise Sales Tax and Value
Added Tax (e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, there is no loan
or advance in the nature of loan granted falling due during the year, which has been renewed or extended or fresh loans granted to settle
the overdues of existing loans given to same parties. Finance Act, (f)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans either repayable on demand or without specifying any terms or period of
repayment. Customs Act, (iv)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of records of the Company, in respect of investments
made and loans, guarantees and security given by the Company, in our opinion the provisions of Section and of the Companies Act, (“the Act”) have been complied with.
GST Act, (v)	The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts which are deemed to be deposits from the public. Accordingly, clause (v) of the Order is
not applicable.
(vi)	We have broadly reviewed the books of accounts maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by the Central Government for
maintenance of cost records under Section () of the Act in respect of its manufactured goods and are of the opinion that prima facie, the
prescribed accounts and records have been made and maintained. However, we have not carried out a detailed examination of the records with a
view to determine whether these are accurate or complete.
(vii) (a)	The Company does not have liability in respect of Service tax, Duty of excise, Sales tax and Value added tax during the year since effective July , these statutory dues has been subsumed into GST. (ix) Income Tax Act, Income Tax . ,. ,. Period to which the amount
relates Forum where dispute is pending A.Y. -, A.Y. -,
A.Y. -, A.Y. -,
A.Y. - and
A.Y. - Assessing Officer A.Y. -, A.Y. -,
A.Y. -, A.Y. -,
A.Y. - , A.Y. -,
A.Y. - and
A.Y. - CIT(A) A.Y. - Income Tax Appellate Tribunal GST - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . , , -,
- and - Appellate Authority-Tribunal . - High Court ,. - Supreme Court . - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . - and - Appellate Authority-Tribunal Level . - High Court . - and - Appellate Authority-Tribunal . - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . - And - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . - and - Appellate Authority-Tribunal . - Supreme Court . - Appellate Authority-Commissioner . , - and Appellate Authority-Tribunal . - High Court . (a)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not defaulted in repayment of loans and borrowing or in the payment of interest thereon to any lender. (c)	According to the information and explanations given to us by the management, the Company has not obtained any term loans during the year.
Accordingly, clause (ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(d)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the balance sheet of the Company, we report that
no funds raised on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes by the Company. (b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, statutory dues
relating to Goods and Service Tax, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues which have not been deposited on account
of any dispute are as follows:
Amount
(Rs. In crores) Duty of
Customs Forum where dispute is pending (b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not been declared a wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or government authority. According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, no undisputed
amounts payable in respect of Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or
other statutory dues were in arrears as at March for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable. Nature of
the dues Service Tax Period to which the amount
relates (viii)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company has
not surrendered or disclosed any transactions, previously unrecorded as income in the books of account, in the tax assessments under the Income
Tax Act, as income during the year. According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, in our opinion
amounts deducted / accrued in the books of account in respect of undisputed statutory dues including Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund,
Employees State Insurance, Income-Tax, Duty of Customs or Cess or other statutory dues have been regularly deposited by the Company with
the appropriate authorities. Name of the statute Sales Tax Amount
(Rs. In crores) (e)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the standalone financial statements of the
Company, we report that the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures as defined under the Act.
(f)	According to the information and explanations given to us and procedures performed by us, we report that the Company has not raised loans
during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate companies (as defined under the Act).
(x) (a)	The Company has not raised any moneys by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments). Accordingly,
clause (x)(a) of the Order is not applicable.
(b)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our examination of the records of the Company, the Company
has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during the year. Accordingly,
clause (x)(b) of the Order is not applicable. (xi) (a)	Based on examination of the books and records of the Company and according to the information and explanations given to us, considering
the principles of materiality outlined in Standards on Auditing, we report that no fraud by the Company or on the Company has been noticed
or reported during the course of the audit. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S (b)	According to the information and explanations given to us, no report under sub-section () of Section of the Act has been filed by the
auditors in Form ADT- as prescribed under Rule of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, with the Central Government. Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the standalone financial statements of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March (c)	We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while determining the nature, timing
and extent of our audit procedures.  Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of
Sub-section of Section of the Act (xii)	According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Accordingly, clause (xii) of the Order is not
applicable.
(xiii)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the transactions with related parties are in compliance with
Section and of the Act, where applicable, and the details of the related party transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial
statements as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) (a)	Based on information and explanations provided to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the Company has an internal audit system
commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
(b) (a)	The Company is not required to be registered under Section -IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, . Accordingly, clause (xvi)(a) of the
Order is not applicable.
(b)	The Company is not required to be registered under Section -IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, . Accordingly, clause (xvi)(b) of the
Order is not applicable.
(c)	The Company is not a Core Investment Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India. Accordingly,
clause (xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
(d)	According to the information and explanations provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions of the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank)
Directions, ) has more than one CIC as part of the Group. The Group has four CICs as part of the Group. (xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year. Accordingly, clause (xviii) of the Order is not applicable.
(xix)	According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation of
financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty exists as
on the date of the audit report that the Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they
fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the
Company. We further state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when
they fall due. Also refer to the Other Information paragraph of our main audit report which explains that the other information comprising the information
included in Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report.
(xx)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there is no unspent amount under sub-section () of Section of
the Act pursuant to any project. Accordingly, clauses (xx)(a) and (xx)(b) of the Order are not applicable.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W- Place: Bengaluru
Date: May, (Referred to in paragraph (A)(g) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (“the Company”) as of March in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to financial statements and such internal
financial controls were operating effectively as at March , based on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria
established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls
Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls We have considered the internal audit reports of the Company issued till date for the period under audit. (xv)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its
directors or persons connected to its directors and hence, provisions of Section of the Act are not applicable to the Company.
(xvi) Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. ICAI UDIN: 24113156BKGFOM5032 The Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets,
the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial
information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. We
conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section () of the Act, to the extent
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we
comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial
controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that () pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; () provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and
directors of the company; and () provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
may deteriorate.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No. 101248W/W- Place: Bengaluru
Date: May, Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No. ICAI UDIN: 24113156BKGFOM5032 MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Balance Sheet | as at 31st March, Statement of Profit and Loss | for the period ended 31st March, Rupees crores
Note No. I. ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment......................................................................................................................................................................
Capital work-in-progress.....................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets under development......................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Loans..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................
Income tax assets (net)......................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current assets..................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments...................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents.................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents...................................................................................................
(v) Loans..................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(vi) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................
Other current assets............................................................................................................................................................................................
Assets held for sale ............................................................................................................................................................................................ II. TOTAL ASSETS.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital...............................................................................................................................................................................................
Other equity................................................................................................................................................................................................................
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax liabilities (net).............................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Lease liabilities ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Trade payables
(a) Total outstanding dues of Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises......................................................
(b)	Total outstanding dues of creditors other than Micro Enterprises and Small Enterprises.....
(iv) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................
Other current liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Current tax liabilities (net)..............................................................................................................................................................................
Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale................................................................................ TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES............................................................................................................................................................
The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No: Bengaluru, May, th Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Note No. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
.
,. ,.
,.
(,.)
,.
.
,.
.
,.
,.
,.
—
,. ,.
,.
(,.)
,.
.
,.
.
,.
,.
,.
(,.)
,. ,.
.
,. ,.
(.)
,. .
(.)
(.) (.)
.
. (.) (.) (.)
.
.
,. .
(.)
(.)
,. .
. .
. INCOME ,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
.
,.
,. ,.
.
,.
.
,.
,. ,.
.
,.
.
,.
,. ,. ,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
—
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,. .
,.
,. .
,.
,. ,.
.
.
,.
,.
.
,. ,.
.
.
,.
,.
.
,. .
. ,.
. .
,.
,.
,.
.
.
—
,.
,. .
,.
,.
,.
.
.
.
,.
,. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - ) Rupees crores Revenue from operations.................................................................................................................................................................................
Income from investment related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures ....................................................
Income from Operations ...............................................................................................................................................................................
Other income ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total income............................................................................................................................................................................................................
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed..........................................................................................................................................................................
Purchases of stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress.......................................................
Employee benefits expense............................................................................................................................................................................
Finance costs.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense...................................................................................................................
Loss from investment related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures............................................................
Other expenses.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total expenses......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit before exceptional items and tax........................................................................................................................................
Exceptional items (net)......................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit before tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................
Tax expense
Current tax.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit for the year..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Other comprehensive income / (loss)
A. (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (a) Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans.......................................................................................... (b) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss.......................................
B. (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss (a) Debt instruments through other comprehensive income................................................................... (b)	Effective portion of gains and losses on designated portion of hedging instruments
in a cash flow hedge......................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss.................................................
Total other comprehensive income / (loss).................................................................................................................................
Total comprehensive income for the year....................................................................................................................................
Earnings per equity share:
(Face value Rs. /- per share) (Rupees)
Basic................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Diluted............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 16th May, The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached. Chairman (DIN - ) For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No: Bengaluru, May, th For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - ) Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 16th May, —
—
—
—
—
—
—
— Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)......................
Total Comprehensive Income for the year.....
Dividend paid on Equity Shares...................................
Exercise of employee stock options...........................
Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
Trust to Employees...............................................................
On account of employee stock options lapsed.....
Share based payment to employees..........................
As at 31st March, .................................................... — As at 31st March, .................................................... . — — — — — — — — — — . Capital
Reserve . — — — — — — — — . ,. — — — — (.) . — — — — ,. Securities
Premium
(refer note a) ,. — — (.) . — — — — ,. . ,. — — — . — — — — — — ,. General
Reserve
(refer note b) — — — — — — — — . Debenture
Redemption
Reserve . — — — — — — — — — — . Debenture
Redemption
Reserve Reserves and Surplus ,. — . — — — — — — ,. General
Reserve
(refer note b) Reserves and Surplus . — — . (.) — (.) — — — — . Share
Option
Outstanding
Account . . (.) — (.) — — — — . Share
Option
Outstanding
Account . . . . Rupees crores ,. — . — — — — (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Retained
Earnings ,. — — — — (,.) ,. . ,. ,. Retained
Earnings General reserve: General reserve comprises of transfer of profits from retained earnings for appropriation purposes. The reserve can be distributed / utilised by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act, . (vi)	Share option outstanding account: Share option outstanding account represents reserve in respect of equity settled share options granted to the Company’s employees in pursuance of the Employee Stock Option Plan. (v)	Debenture redemption reserve: Debenture redemption reserve is a statutory reserve (as per Companies Act, ) created out of profits of the Company available for payment of dividend for the purpose of redemption of
Debentures issued by the Company. On completion of redemption, the reserve is transferred to retained earnings. (iv)	Retained earnings: Retained earnings comprises of accumulated balance of profits / (losses) of current and prior years including transfers made to / from other reserves from time to time. The reserve can be utilized or distributed
by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, . (iii) ,. Securities premium: Securities premium reserve is used to record the premium on issue of shares. The fair value of employee stock options is recognised in Securities Premium once the shares have been allotted on exercise of
the options. . (.) — . — (.) . (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Total Capital reserve: Capital reserve mainly represents the amount of net assets acquired over and above consideration paid consequent to the Scheme of Arrangement. (.) (.) — — — — — — — . . — ,. . — (.) — (,.) Rupees crores (.) Effective
portion of
Cash Flow
Hedges
[Note (ii)] . — — — — — (i) — (.) — — — — — . . — (.) Equity
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income — — — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Debt
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income . ,. ,. (.) ,. (.) — . Total Rupees crores (ii) Description of the nature and purpose of Other Equity: Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - ) Narayan Shankar Manoj Bhat Rajesh Jejurikar Anish Shah Anand G. Mahindra Chairman (DIN - ) Mumbai, 16th May, Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Group Chief Financial Officer Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - ) Managing Director and CEO (DIN - ) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Bengaluru, 16th May, Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No: For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S In terms of our report attached. The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements (b)	The Share capital of the Company has also been reduced and the Securities premium increased by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) for the ,,, bonus shares of Rs. each (: ,,, bonus shares of Rs. each) issued by the Company in December, to the M&M ESOP Trust but not yet transferred by the M&M ESOP Trust to the employees. (a)	The Company has reduced the Share capital by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) and Securities premium by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) for the ,,, shares of Rs. each (: ,,, shares
of Rs. each) held by the M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees. Notes: (C) (.) — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Effective
portion of
Cash Flow
Hedges
[note (ii)] Items of other comprehensive income (.) — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Equity
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income Items of other comprehensive income
Debt
instrument
through Other
Comprehensive
Income Remeasurement gain (net) on defined benefit plans Rs. . crores (: Loss of Rs. . crores) has been recognised during the year as part of Retained earnings. — — Share based payment to employees ...................... (.) — On account of employee stock options
lapsed ........................................................................................... Shares allotted ...................................................................... — Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
Trust to Employees ............................................................ Transfer to Retained earnings .................................... — — Total Comprehensive Income for the year..... . — Other Comprehensive Income / (Loss)...................... Exercise of employee stock options ...................... — Profit for the year................................................................... Dividend paid on Equity Shares ................................. . As at 1st April, ........................................................... Share
Pending
Issuance — Profit for the year................................................................... (B) Other Equity (contd.) — As at 1st April, ........................................................... Securities
Premium
(refer note a) Balance as at the end of the year............................................................................................ Capital
Reserve —
. Add: Shares issued under Scheme of Arrangement...................................................... Share
Pending
Issuance . Add: Allotment of shares by M&M ESOP Trust to Employees............................... (B) Other Equity . Balance as at the beginning of the year.............................................................................. Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up:............................................................................................. (A) Equity Share Capital Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the years presented. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised and future periods affected. Key sources of estimation uncertainty, critical judgments and assumptions at the date of financial statements, which may cause a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are in respect of the below: (i) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets - refer note (e) and (f). (ii) Provision for product warranties - refer note (q) and note . (iii) Fair value of financial assets, liabilities and investments - refer note (f). (iv) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets including investments - refer note (g). (v) (vi) Recoverability of deferred tax asset on unabsorbed losses - refer note (p) and note . (e) Classification of investment as subsidiary, associate or joint venture - refer note (j). Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment,
if any. Cost includes financing cost relating to borrowed funds attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying tangible assets upto the date
the assets are ready for use. Depreciation is provided on straight-line basis for property, plant and equipment so as to expense the depreciable amount, i.e. the cost less
estimated residual value, over its estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and the effect of any
changes in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis. When an asset is scrapped or otherwise disposed off, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the books of account and
resultant profit or loss, if any, is reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss. The amortisation period for intangible assets are reviewed annually and changes in expected useful lives are treated as changes in estimates.. (g) Impairment of assets At the end of each reporting period, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets , intangible assets and investments in
subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any
such indication exists, the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use or fair value less cost to sell, of the asset or cash-generating
unit, as the case may be, is estimated and impairment loss (if any) is recognised and the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value. When it is not possible to estimate the
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate
of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) earlier. Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
(h) Inventories Inventories are carried at cost or net realisable value whichever is lower. Cost is determined on the basis of the weighted average method and
comprises of all cost of purchase, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
(i) Foreign exchange transactions and translation Transactions in foreign currencies i.e. other than the Company’s functional currency of Indian Rupees are recognised at the rates of exchange
prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at
the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items measured at fair value that are denominated in foreign
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value is determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms
of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period
in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions entered into in order to hedge certain foreign currency risks (refer policy on
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting). . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Material accounting policies (contd.) . Material accounting policies (contd.) (j)	Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The Company assesses if it has acquired control, joint control or significant influence over an investee based on shareholding, voting power, composition
of board, rights under shareholder agreements and other facts and circumstances of each case which involves use of judgment. (k) The Company accounts for its equity investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment, if any. Offsetting Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the Balance Sheet when, and only when, the Company currently
has a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the
liability simultaneously. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition
or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are
added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs
directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately
in profit or loss. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price.
Classification and subsequent measurement Financial assets All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are
purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
All recognised financial assets are subsequently measured at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their respective classification. On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at — Amortised cost - debt instrument; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - debt instrument; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - equity instrument; or — Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) The classification of debt instrument as amortised cost or FVTOCI is based on the business model and cash flow characteristics of such instrument. Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition, except if the Company changes its business model for managing
financial assets. A financial asset not classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI is measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets unless
designated as effective hedge instruments which are accounted as per hedge accounting requirements discussed below. Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured at amortised cost using effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced
by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment expenses are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain and
loss on derecognition is also recognised in profit or loss. For equity investments other than investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, the Company makes an election on an instrumentby-instrument basis to designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. These elected investments are measured at fair value with gains
and losses arising from changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the reserves. The cumulative gain
or loss is not reclassified to profit or loss on disposal of the investments. These equity investments are not held for trading. Dividend income
received on such equity investments are recognised in profit or loss. Equity investments that are not designated to be measured at Cost or FVTOCI are designated to be measured at FVTPL. Subsequent changes
in fair value are recognised in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Debt and equity instruments issued by the Company are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the
contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as held-fortrading or it is a derivative (that does not meet hedge accounting requirements) or it is designated as such on initial recognition.
Derecognition of financial assets The Company derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the rights
to receive the contractual cash flows from financial asset in a manner that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are
transferred to another party. If the Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to
control the transferred asset, the Company recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for the amount it may have to pay. If the Company enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognised on its Balance Sheet, but retains either all or substantially all
of the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are not derecognised and the proceeds received are recognised as a
collateralised borrowing. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Company enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to manage its
exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts that are not financial assets within the
scope of Ind AS are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the
end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective
as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the
nature of the hedged item. The Company designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or
cash flow hedges. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Company documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and
on an ongoing basis, the Company documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows
of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Impairment of financial assets The Company applies the Expected Credit Loss (ECL) model for recognising impairment loss on financial assets. With respect to trade receivables
and loans, the Company measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This
is generally the case when the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash
flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities under
the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
(l) Revenue Recognition
Sale of goods or services Revenue from sale of goods are recognised upon satisfaction of performance obligation which is at a point in time, generally on delivery of the
goods, when control of the goods is transferred to customers. Revenue from services are recognised upon satisfaction of performance obligation
towards rendering of such services. The Company recognises revenue from sale of goods or services at the amount of transaction price (excluding variable consideration that is
constrained), that is allocated to the performance obligation satisfied. Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Company
expects it to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. An amount of consideration can vary because of discounts, rebates, incentives etc. which are explicitly stated in the contract or are as per customary
business practices. The consideration can also vary where the entitlement is contingent on occurrence or non-occurrence of a future event. The
Company includes variable consideration as part of transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the
amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
Variable consideration is estimated using the expected value method or the most likely amount depending on which method the Company expects
to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled and is applied consistently throughout the contract. Payment terms agreed with a customer are as per business practice and the financing component, if significant, is separated from the transaction
price and accounted as interest income / expense, as applicable.
Dividend and interest income Dividend from investments are recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the amount of
income can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Material accounting policies (contd.) . (m) Government Grants Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint
arrangements to the extent that the Company is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that
they will not reverse in the foreseeable future. The Company, directly or indirectly through a consortium of Mahindra Group companies, is entitled to various incentives from government authorities.
Government grants are recognised when there is a reasonable assurance that the same will be received and all attached conditions will be complied
with. Government grants that are revenue in nature, are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Company
recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.
(n) Employee Benefits
Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund The Company’s contribution paid / payable during the year to Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund are recognised in profit or loss. Provident Fund Contributions to Provident Fund are made to a Trust administered by the Company / Regional Provident Fund Commissioners and are charged to
profit or loss as incurred. The Company is liable for the contribution and any shortfall in interest between the amount of income earned by the Trust
and the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India in respect of the Trust administered by the Company. For
such trust the shortfall and remeasurement thereof, if any, based on actuarial valuation is recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI).
Gratuity, long term compensated absences, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes Material accounting policies (contd.) The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
(q) Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Company
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision is
the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks and
uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount
is the present value of these cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material). Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations are recognised at the time of sale of the relevant products, at the best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the Company’s obligation. The provisions are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current
best estimate.
(r) Leases
The Company as a lessee The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. The liability towards gratuity, long term compensated absences, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes
are determined by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. The right-of-use assets are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. In
addition, the right-of-use asset is reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. Remeasurement of defined benefit plans, comprising of actuarial gains or losses, return on plan assets excluding interest income are recognised
immediately in Balance Sheet with corresponding debit or credit to other comprehensive income. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or
loss in subsequent period. The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost at the present value of the future lease payments, discounted using the interest rate
implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, using the incremental borrowing rate. Remeasurement gains or losses on long term compensated absences that are classified as other long term benefits are recognised in profit or loss.
Share based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the
Company’s estimate of the number of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity.
(o) Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial
period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready
for their intended use or sale except for the period the construction activities are temporarily suspended. All other borrowing costs are recognised
in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
(p) Income taxes Current tax The Company’s current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset, if entity has a legally enforceable right to set off recognised amounts and intends to settle
on net basis or to realise the current tax asset and settle the current tax liabilities simultaneously. Deferred tax Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset
realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement
of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Company expects, at the end
of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities, and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Deferred tax assets including that on unused tax losses and unused tax credits are recognised to the extent that it is probable and there is
convincing evidence that future taxable income will be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Company’s
estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Company changes its assessment of whether it will
exercise a purchase, extension or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is
recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of months or
less and leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.
The Company as lessor When the Company acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or an operating lease. Whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance
lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases. When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sublease separately. The sublease is classified
as a finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. The Company recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(s) Business Combination Business Combination under common control are accounted under “the pooling of interest method” i.e. in accordance with Appendix C in Ind AS - Business combinations, at carrying amount of assets and liabilities acquired and any excess of consideration issued over the net assets acquired
is recognised as capital reserve on common control business combination.
(t) Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying
value and fair value less costs to sell.
. Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
 inistry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standards or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
M
Rules as issued from time to time. There is no such notification which would have been applicable from 1st April, . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Property, Plant and Equipment . Property, plant and equipment comprise of owned and right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of Investment property. Property, Plant and Equipment (contd.)
(b) Right-of-use assets Rupees crores Rupees crores
Particulars Land Buildings Vehicles Others
(refer note a) Total Balance as at 1st April, ...................................................................... . . . . . Additions during the year ................................................................................ . . . . . Deductions during the year ............................................................................ — (.) (.) — (.) Rupees crores Balance as at 31st March, ............................................................... . . . . ,. Total Balance as at April, ................................................................... . . . . ,. (a) Owned assets .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (b) Right-of-use assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (a) Particulars
Cost Owned assets Particulars Land –
Freehold Buildings Plant and
Office
Equipment Equipment Furniture
and
Fixtures Aircraft Vehicles st Cost Additions during the year ................................................................................ . . . . . Deductions during the year ............................................................................ (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Balance as at March, ............................................................... . . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ...................................................................... . . . . . Depreciation expense for the year ........................................................... . . . . . Deductions during the year ............................................................................ — (.) (.) (.) (.) st Balance as at 1st April, ......................................... . . . . Additions / Transfer from capital work-in-progress
during the year ........................................................................... . . ,. . . — . ,. Disposals during the year ................................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) (.) Reclassified to asset held for sale ............................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) (.) Balance as at 31st March, .................................. Impairment losses during the year # ...................................................... — — . — . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at 31st March, ............................................................... . . . . . Balance as at 1st April, ......................................... . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ................................................................... . . . . . Additions / Transfer from capital work-in-progress
during the year .......................................................................... Depreciation expense for the year ........................................................... . . . . . — . . — . ,. Deductions during the year.............................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Balance as at 31st March, ............................................................... . . . . . Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ................................... . . . . . Net carrying amount as at March, ............................ . . . . ,. Disposals during the year..................................................... — Balance as at March, .................................. . st ,. ,. .
(.) ,.
(.) (.) (.) — ,. ,. . . . . ,. (.) Accumulated depreciation and impairment Net carrying amount . ,. Accumulated depreciation and impairment st Balance as at 1st April, ......................................... — . . . . ,. Depreciation expense for the year................................. — . ,. . . . . ,. Impairment losses during the year # ......................... — — . . . — . . Disposals during the year ................................................... — (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) (.) Reclassified to asset held for sale ............................... — (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) (.) Balance as at 31st March, .................................. — ,. ,. . . . . ,. Particulars Balance as at April, ......................................... — ,. ,. . . . . ,. Depreciation expense for the year................................. — . ,. . . . . Disposals during the year..................................................... — (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) Balance as at March, .................................. — ,. ,. . . . st st ,. ,. Notes:
a) Others include Plant & Equipment and Furniture & Fixtures. #	In the previous year ended 31st March, , impairment losses have been recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as part of ‘Exceptional
items (net)’.
. Capital-work-in progress (CWIP) Rupees crores Balance at the beginning of the year ............................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. ,. Additions during the year ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. (.) Interest capitalisation ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . ,. Transfer to property, plant and equipment ......................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) Deletions during the year ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) Net carrying amount
Net carrying amount as at March, ........ . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Reclassified as held for sale .......................................................................................................................................................................................................... — (.) Net carrying amount as at March, .... . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Impairment losses during the year # ...................................................................................................................................................................................... — (.) Balance at the end of the year .............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. . st st Notes:
a) Buildings include Rs. * crores (: Rs. * crores) being the value of shares in co-operative housing societies. #	In the previous year ended 31st March, , impairment losses have been recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as part of ‘Exceptional
items (net)’.
* denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. #	In the previous year ended March, , impairment losses have been recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as part of ‘Exceptional
items (net)’.
st . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Capital-work-in progress (CWIP) (contd.)
Ageing of capital work in progress .
Rupees crores Particulars - years - years More than years Total As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Total........................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . . . ,. . . . . . . Total ..................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . Intangible Assets
Particulars Brand
Licences Computer
Software Others
(refer note a) Total Balance as at 1st April, ................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Additions / Transfer from Intangible assets under
development during the year .................................................................... ,. — . . ,. Deductions during the year ......................................................................... (.) — (.) — (.) Reclassified to asset held for sale ......................................................... (.) — (.) — (.) Balance as at 31st March, .......................................................... ,. . . . ,. Balance as at April, ................................................................ ,. . . . ,. Additions / Transfer from Intangible assets under
development during the year .................................................................... ,. — . — ,. Rupees crores Particulars Amount in Intangible assets under development for a period of Cost st Deductions during the year........................................................................... (.) — (.) (.) (.) Balance as at 31st March, .......................................................... ,. . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Amortisation expense for the year.......................................................... ,. . . . ,. Impairment losses during the year # ................................................... . — . — . Deductions during the year ......................................................................... (.) — (.) — (.) Reclassified to asset held for sale ......................................................... (.) — (.) — (.) Balance as at 31st March, ............................................................ ,. . . . ,. Balance as at April, ................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Amortisation expense for the year.......................................................... ,. . . . ,. Impairment losses during the year # ................................................... . — — — . Deductions during the year........................................................................... (.) — (.) — (.) Balance as at 31st March, ............................................................ ,. . . . ,. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, .................................. ,. . . . ,. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ........................... ,. . . . ,. Accumulated amortisation and impairment st Net carrying amount # In the previous year, impairment losses have been recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as a part of ‘ Exceptional items (net)’. Note
a) Others include Trade Marks, Transferable Development Rights, etc. Ageing of intangible assets under development Rupees crores
Development
Expenditure Balance at the beginning of the year ...............................................................................................................................................................................
,.
,.
Additions during the year ................................................................................................................................................................................................................
,.
,.
Interest capitalisation .........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
.
.
Transfer to Intangible assets .........................................................................................................................................................................................................
(,.)
(,.)
Deletions during the year ................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(.)
(.)
Reclassified as assets held for sale ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
—
(.)
Impairment losses during the year # ......................................................................................................................................................................................
(.)
(.)
Balance at the end of the year ..............................................................................................................................................................................................
,.
,.
# In the previous year ended 31st March , impairment losses, Rs. . crores and Rs. . crores have been recognised as ‘Exceptional items
(net)’ and ‘Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense’, respectively, in the Statement of Profit and Loss. As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ................................................................................................................................... Rupees crores Particulars Amount in Capital work in progress for a period of
Less than year Intangible assets under development As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
Total .....................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, :
Projects in progress ...................................................................................................................................
Total .....................................................................................................................................................................
. Less than year - years - years More than years Total .
. .
. .
. .
. ,.
,. .
. .
. .
. .
. ,.
,. Investments
A. Non-current investments Particulars Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores ,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
,, ,.
.
.
.
.
.
,. ,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
,,,
,, ,.
.
.
.
.
.
,. ,,, . ,,, . — —
. ,,, .
,. (B) Designated and measured at FVTPL
In Other Companies
KG Mobility Co. Ltd. (listed on stock exchange
outside India) ............................................................................................... KRW ,
RBL Bank Limited ........................................................................................ ,,,
,,, .
. ,,,
— .
— Investments in Equity Instruments (fully paid-up, unless
stated otherwise)
Quoted
(A) At Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
Equity shares
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited...................
Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited...........................................................
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited..........................
Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited...................................
Mahindra Logistics Limited....................................................................
Swaraj Engines Limited...............................................................................
(ii) In Associate Companies
Equity shares
Tech Mahindra Limited......................................................................
CIE Automotive India Limited (Formerly known as
Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited) ........................................ ,. . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars .
Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number (C) Designated and measured at FVTOCI
In Other Companies
Equity shares.....................................................................................................
Preference shares # ...................................................................................
Investments in Equity Instruments-Quoted (Total) ..................
Unquoted
(A) At Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
Equity shares
Gromax Agri Equipment Limited .........................................
Kota Farm Services Limited ...................................................
Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited ..........................
Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited .........................................
Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary)
Limited ....................................................................................................
Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited ...............
Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited ........................
-Ordinary shares .............................................................................
-Ordinary shares .............................................................................
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited ................................
Mahindra Construction Company Limited .....................
Mahindra Defence Systems Limited ..................................
Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda.(quotas) .................
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited [including
,,, shares of face value of Rs. each
partly paid-up Rs. . per share) .....................................
Mahindra eMarket Limited .......................................................
Mahindra Holdings Limited ......................................................
Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius)
Limited ...................................................................................................
– Ordinary shares ...........................................................................
– Ordinary shares ...........................................................................
Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra Telecom Energy
Management Services Private Limited) ..........................
Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. ......
– Class A Shares ..............................................................................
– Class B Shares .............................................................................
– Class C Shares .............................................................................
– Class D Shares .............................................................................
Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited ..........................................
Mahindra USA Inc. ..........................................................................
– Class A Shares ..............................................................................
– Class B Shares .............................................................................
Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra Waste To Energy
Solutions Limited) Ω ....................................................................
Mahindra Accelo Limited [including ,,,
shares of face value of Rs. each partly paid-up
Rs. per share] ............................................................................... Rupees
crores Number .
.
.
,. Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars Rupees
crores ,,
,,
,
,,, .
—
.
. ,,
,,
,
,,, .
—
.
. ZAR AUD ,,,
,, .
. ,,,
,, .
. EUR NA BRL ,,,
***
,,,
,,
,,,
,,, ,.
.
,.
—
.
. ,,,
***
,,,
,,
,,,
,,, ,.
.
,.
—
.
. ,,,,
,,
,,,, ,.
.
,. ,,,,
,,
,,,, ,.
.
,. US $ NA ,,,
,,, ,.
,. ,,,
,,, ,.
,. ,,, . ,,, . EUR EUR .
EUR .
EUR .
. ,,,
,,,,
,,,
,,,,
,,,, .
.
.
.
. ,,,
,,,,
,,,
,,,,
,,,, .
.
.
.
. US $ .
US $ . ,,,
,,, .
. ,,,
,,, .
. — — ,,, . ,,, . ,,, . Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores ,,, . ,,, . ,, . ,, . NA
NA NA ,,
,,,
,,
,
,,
,,,
,,, .
.
.
.
.
.
—
.
.
,. ,,
,,,
,,
,
,,
,,,
— .
.
.
.
.
.
—
.
—
,. EUR ,,,
, .
. ,,,
, .
. ,, . — — ,,,
,,, .
.
. ,,,
,,, .
.
. NA — — ,, . ,,, .
.
. ,,, .
.
. (iii) In Joint Venture Companies
Equity shares
Carnot Technologies Private Limited ................................
Classic Legends Private Limited ...........................................
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited ...........................
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited .......... LKR ,
,,,
,,
,,, .
.
.
.
. ,
,,,
,,
,,, .
.
.
.
. Preference shares
(classified as equity instruments)
Compulsorily Convertible Cumulative Preference
shares: Carnot Technologies Private Limited .............
– Series A .............................................................................................
– Series B .............................................................................................
– Series C .............................................................................................
– Seed ..................................................................................................... ,
,
,
, .
.
.
. ,
,
,
, .
.
.
. Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited ........................................
Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private
Limited ...................................................................................................
Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co.,
Limited: ..................................................................................................
– Equity share ...................................................................................
– Class A Shares ..............................................................................
M.I.T.R.A. Agro Equipments Private Limited ..................
NBS International Limited ........................................................
Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited ....................
Sampo Rosenlew Oy ....................................................................
Officemartindia.com Limited ...................................................
Trringo.com Limited ......................................................................
Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited ................................. .
—
.
,. (ii) In Associate Companies
Equity shares
PF Holdings B.V. ...................................................................................
PSL Media & Communications Limited ...............................
Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra Waste To Energy
Solutions Limited) Ω ........................................................................
Brainbees Solutions Limited (formerly known as
Brainbees Solutions Private Limited) ...................................
ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited ...........................
Preference shares
(classified as equity instruments)
Series C Preferred shares: Resson Aerospace
Corporation ¥ ........................................................................................
Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares - Series
D1 CCPS - Brainbees Solutions Limited (formerly
known as Brainbees Solutions Private Limited) ............ . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars Compulsorily Convertible Cumulative Participating
Preference Shares: Smartshift Logistics Solutions
Private Limited:
– .% Series C ............................................................................
– .% Series C1 ........................................................................
Non
Cumulative
Compulsorily
Convertible
Preference Shares: Zoomcar India Private Limited: #
– .% Series P1 ..................................................................
– .% Series P2 .................................................................. .
Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Preference shares (classified as equity instruments)
Compulsory Convertible Cumulative Preference
shares: Health Care at Home India Private Limited
– . % Class MW2 ....................................................................
Investments in Equity Instruments-Unquoted (Total) ............
Investments in Equity Instruments (Total)
Investments in Debt instruments:
Unquoted
At Amortised Cost
(i) In Subsidiary Companies
.% Non-Cumulative Redeemable Participating
Preference Shares: Mahindra Construction Company
Limited ......................................................................................................
In Other Companies
Others ......................................................................................................
Investments in Debt Instruments (Total)............................................
Other Non Current Investments
Quoted
Mandatorily measured at FVTPL
Sustainable Energy Infra Trust ..............................................
Unquoted
Mandatorily measured at FVTPL:
(i) In Subsidiary companies
.% Optionally Convertible Cumulative Redeemable
Preference Shares: Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited ..
.% Optionally Convertible Redeemable Bonds:
Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l ............ Number Investments (contd.)
A. Non-current investments (contd.)
Particulars Rupees
crores
(ii) ,,
,, —
— (iv) In Trust Securities
M&M Benefit Trust ........................................................................
M&M Fractional Entitlement Trust ....................................
Sunrise Initiatives Trust .............................................................
(B) Designated and measured at FVTOCI
(i) In Other Companies
Gamaya SA:
– Irredeemable Preferred shares π ........................................
– Common shares π ..........................................................................
Equity shares - others .................................................................... Rupees
crores .
. —
—
.
. ,,
,, ,,
,, ,.
.
.
,. CHF CHF —
, —
—
.
. .
. .
—
.
.
,.
.
.
,. , —
—
.
. ,, ,, (ii) .
,.
,. —
— — ,, *
— —
,.
,. —
—
*
— ,,, . — — ,,, . ,,, . ,,,, .
. ,,,, .
. In Joint Venture Companies
.% Compulsorily Convertible Non-Cumulative
Preference Shares: Classic Legends Private
Limited .................................................................................................... Face Value
Per Unit
(Rupees) Number Rupees
crores Number Rupees
crores ,,, .
. — — (iii) In Others
Investment in Alternate Investment Fund.......................
Other Non Current Investments - Unquoted (Total) ...................
Investment in Other Non Current Investments (Total) ............
Total Non Current Investments (Gross) .................................................
Less: Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments....
Total
...........................................................................................................................
Other Disclosures
(i) Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross).....................
Market Value of quoted investments................................................
(ii) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross)...............
Notes:
Ω Status has changed from subsidiary to associate during the year
# Status has changed from joint venture to a financial asset during the year
¥ Liquidated w.e.f. 20th September π Change in number and nature of shares on account of internal restructuring of the investee
*** Number of shares-: ,,,,,,,,, (: ,,,,,,,,)
NA face value not applicable
* Denotes amount less than Rs. ,
B. .
.
.
.
,.
(,.)
,. .
.
.
.
,.
(,.)
,. ,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,. Current investments Particulars
Quoted:
Mandatorily measured at FVTPL
Investments in Mutual Funds..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Market Linked Debentures............................................................................................................................................................................
Designated and measured at FVTOCI
Investments in Equity Instruments..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Debentures and Bonds.....................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Government securities ...................................................................................................................................................................................
Unquoted:
Mandatorily measured at FVTOCI
Investments in Commercial Papers ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Certificate of Deposits ...................................................................................................................................................................................
Measured at amortised cost
Investments in Corporate Fixed Deposits .............................................................................................................................................................................
Investments in Treps ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Total Current Investments
Other Disclosures
(i) Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross).............................................................................................................................................
Market Value of quoted investments............................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross)....................................................................................................................................... Rupees crores ,.
.
,. ,.
.
,. .
.
.
.
,. .
.
.
.
,. .
.
,. .
,.
,. .
.
.
,. .
—
.
,. ,. ,. ,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Loans
Particulars Rupees crores
Non-Current Current Credit impaired ........................................................................................................................................ . . Raw materials and bought-out components [includes in transit Rs. . crores; : Rs . crores] ................... ,. ,. Work-in-Progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. Finished goods produced ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Stock-in-Trade .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Manufactured Components.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Stores and Spares................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Loose tools ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. . . . . . . ,. ,. Less: Loss Allowance .......................................................................................................................... . . . . Total................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. . . . . Other Loans
Unsecured, considered good .........................................................................................................
Total................................................................................................................................................................. . . . . Total Loans................................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. (a) Non current Loan to Related Parties includes Loan to Director Rs. Nil (: Rs. . crores).
(b) Other Current and Non Current Loans mainly includes loans to employees and loans given to other companies.
(c)	Loans given to employees as per the Company’s policy are not considered for the purposes of disclosure under Section () of the
Companies Act, .
. Other Financial Assets
Particulars Rupees crores
Non-Current Current Security deposits .............................................................................................................................................. . . . . Corporate Fixed Deposits ............................................................................................................................ . — — — Bank deposits with more than months maturity .............................................................. ,. . — — Interest accrued on investments, other loans and other financial assets ............... — — . . Government grant receivable .................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . . Others ....................................................................................................................................................................... — — . . Derivative financial assets-foreign currency and commodity derivatives ................ — — . . Derivatives on interest in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures ........................ . . — — Total .......................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Measured at fair value: Other financial assets mainly includes receivables for oil royalty income, scrap sales and other recoverable expenses. Particulars Rupees crores
Non-Current (a) The amount of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores). (b)	The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year includes Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) in respect of write-down
of inventories to net realisable value, and has been reduced by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) in respect of the reversal of such write
downs. Reversal in provision is due to sale and / or consumption of inventories provided for in earlier years.
(c) Method of valuation of inventories is stated in Note (h). . Trade Receivables Rupees crores Particulars Unsecured, considered good............................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Credit impaired.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Less: Loss Allowance [(refer note (b)(ii)] ...................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Measured at amortised cost: . Other assets (non financial) Rupees crores Particulars Loans to related parties (refer note )
Unsecured considered good............................................................................................................. . Inventories Current Capital advances................................................................................................................................................... ,. . — — Balances with government authorities (other than current taxes) .............................. . . ,. ,. Other advances .................................................................................................................................................. . . . ,. Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Other advances include advances to suppliers, prepaid expenses, export benefits receivable, other recoverable expenses, and contract assets. Ageing of trade receivables Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due Less than months months year - years - years More than years Total Undisputed trade receivables - considered good ................ ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables - credit impaired .................... — . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired ......................... — — — . . . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Less: Loss Allowance [refer note (b)(ii)] ............................. (.) Total Trade receivables ..................................................................... ,. Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due Less than months months year - years - years More than years Total Undisputed trade receivables - considered good ................ ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables - credit impaired .................... — . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables - credit impaired ......................... — . . . . . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Less: Loss Allowance [refer note (b)(ii)] ............................. (.) Total Trade receivables ..................................................................... ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Cash & cash equivalents Rupees crores Particulars – On Current accounts......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . – Fixed deposits with original maturity less than months..................................................................................................................................... . . . Equity Share Capital (contd.)
c.	Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by shareholders holding more than % of the aggregate Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up shares of the
Company: Balances with banks ,. ,. Cheques, drafts on hand (including in transit)..................................................................................................................................................................... . . Cash on hand.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Name of the Shareholder d. . Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents Rupees crores No.
of Shares Shareholding
% Prudential Management and Services Private Limited................................................ ,,, . ,,, . M&M Benefit Trust................................................................................................................................. ,,, . ,,, . Life Insurance Corporation of India............................................................................................ ,,, . ,,, . Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by Promoters and Promoter group:
Name of the Promoters Earmarked balances with banks ................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Balances with banks on margin accounts ............................................................................................................................................................................ . . Fixed deposits ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Promoters: Total ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Anand Mahindra ..................................................................... No. Shareholding
of Shares
% . Assets held for sale In March , the Company approved sale / transfer of assets and business pertaining to the Last Mile Mobility Business of the Company and
consequently the assets and business have been sold / transferred to Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited w.e.f. 1st September . The identified assets
and liabilities have been classified as ‘Asset held for sale’ as at 31st March . Shareholding
% % Change
during the
year No.
of Shares Shareholding
% % Change
during the
year ,, .% —
— ,, .% .% Late Keshub Mahindra ....................................................... — .% -.% Sub Total (A) .......................................................................... ,, .% Anjali K Mahindra .................................................................. ,, .% Anuradha Mahindra .............................................................. ,, Dhruv S Sharma .................................................................... , Deveshwar Jagat Sharma ............................................... ,, .% ,, .% .% ,, .% — .% .% ,, .% — .% .% , .% — , .% .% , .% — Gautam P Khandelwal ....................................................... , .% .% , .% — ,, .% .% ,, .% .% Promoter Group: . Equity Share Capital
Rupees crores No.
of Shares Particulars Particulars Authorised:
,,,, (: ,,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each............................................................................ ,. ,. Leena S Labroo ...................................................................... ,, Unclassified Shares of Rs. each (: ,,)................................................................................................................. . . Nisheeta Labroo ..................................................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% .% ,,, Preference Shares of Rs. each (: ,,,)................................................................................................ ,. ,. Aneesha Labroo ..................................................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% — ,. ,. Radhika Nath ........................................................................... , .% .% , .% — Sanjay Labroo .......................................................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% — Marthand Singh Mahindra ............................................... , .% .% — .% — Kabir Malhotra ........................................................................ , .% .% — .% — Anjali Malhotra ........................................................................ , .% .% — .% — Issued and Subscribed and Paid-up:
,,,, (: ,,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up................................................... . . Less:
,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up issued to M&M ESOP Trust
but not yet allotted to employees.............................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital.................................................................................................................................... . . a. Reconciliation of number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares and amount outstanding:
Particulars , .% .% — .% — Chetan Varde ........................................................................... ,, .% .% — .% — Yuthica Mahindra Family Trust .................................... ,, .% .% — .% — Late Sudha Keshub Mahindra ...................................... — .% -.% ,, .% — Uma R Malhotra ..................................................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% — Yuthica Keshub Mahindra ................................................ ,, .% .% ,, .% .% Kema Services International Private Limited...... ,, .% .% ,, .% — Prudential Management and Services Private
Limited ........................................................................................... ,,, .% -.% ,,, .% — .% — No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores At the beginning of the year..................................................................................................... ,,,, . ,,,, . — — ,, . Balance as at the end of the year ..................................................................................... ,,,, . ,,,, . M&M Benefit Trust ............................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Sub Total (B) .......................................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Total (A+B) ............................................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up:
Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement....................................................
Less: Shares issued to M&M ESOP Trust but not allotted to employees ....
b. Deepak Varde ........................................................................... ,,, . ,,, . Adjusted Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital................................... ,,,, . ,,,, . The Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company rank pari-passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend. e. For the period of preceding five years as on the Balance Sheet date, Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital includes: During the year ended 31st March, , aggregate of ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Scheme
of Arrangement without payment being received in cash. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Details of dividend proposed:
Rupees crores
Particulars Dividend per share (Rupees)........................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Dividend on Equity Shares (Rupees crores) ....................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Borrowings
A. Non-Current
Rupees crores
Particulars Debentures........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. Term loan from banks................................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Long term borrowings (measured at amortised cost)
Unsecured: Debentures include: Rupees crores - . % p.a. Senior Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in July ................................ . . - . % p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in September ................................ . . - . % p.a. Redeemable Non-Convertible Debentures maturing in June *............................................. — . Less: Unamortised finance cost ............................................................................................................................................................. . . . ,. *
Prepaid during the year (b)	Other loans mainly comprise of deferred sales tax loans which are interest free and repayable in five equal installments after ten years from
the year of availment of the respective loan.
B. Long Term Borrowings.................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Non current lease liabilities .................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Short term borrowings ............................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Current lease liabilities ............................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Unclaimed matured deposits ................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total Opening Balance.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Opening balance Cash flow movements
Proceeds from borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................... . — Repayment of borrowings.......................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) Repayment of lease liabilities.................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) (,.) (,.) Additions in lease liabilities (includes interest thereon)........................................................................................................................ . . Deletions in lease liabilities....................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Effect of amortisation of loan origination costs........................................................................................................................................ . . . . Long term borrowings ................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Non current lease liabilities .................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Short term borrowings................................................................................................................................................................................................. . ,. Current lease liabilities ............................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Closing Balance Unclaimed matured deposits.................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total Closing Balance............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Other Financial Liabilities Current
Particulars Rupees crores Particulars Non-cash movements Notes (a) . Borrowings (contd.)
C. Reconciliation of movement in borrowings to cash flows from financing activities Rupees crores Rupees crores Particulars (i) Short Term Borrowings (measured at amortised cost) Non-Current Current Measured at Amortised Cost: Unsecured:
Term loan from bank ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . — Interest accrued and not due on borrowings................................................................................. — — . . Total .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . — Unclaimed dividends.......................................................................................................................................... — — . . (ii) Current maturities of long term borrowings (measured at amortised cost) Unclaimed matured deposits and interest accrued thereon................................................ — — . . Unsecured: Security Deposits................................................................................................................................................ . . — — Other liabilities ................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Debentures ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... — ,. Term loan from banks ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. — . Deferred sales tax loan / Others .................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. Grand Total .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. The Company has also availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, which are
secured by hypothecation of certain current assets. Measured at Fair Value:
Derivative financial liabilities-foreign currency and commodity derivatives ........... — — . . Derivatives on interest in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures ........................ . . — — Total .......................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Other liabilities include salaries and wages payable, capital creditors, monies adjusted from share capital and other equity on account of shares held by
M&M ESOP Trust pending transfer to the eligible employees. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Provisions
Particulars Rupees crores
Non-Current . Income Taxes (contd.)
(b) Income tax recognised in Other Comprehensive Income Rupees crores Current Provision for employee benefits................................................................................................................. . . . . Provision for warranties ................................................................................................................................. . . . . Provision for service coupons...................................................................................................................... . . . . Total ............................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. . . Particulars Effective portion of gains and loss on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge ......................... . (.) Net fair value gain on investments in debt instruments at FVTOCI.................................................................................................................. . . Remeasurement of defined benefit plans............................................................................................................................................................................. (.) . Total deferred tax (expense) / income ........................................................................................................................................................................... (.) . Deferred tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during the year: Provision for employee benefits includes gratuity, provident fund, post retirement benefits, compensated absences, etc. (refer note ) Current tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income during the year: Provision for warranties and service coupons relates to provision made in respect of sale of certain products and components, the estimated cost of
which is accrued at the time of sale. The products are generally covered under a free warranty period ranging from to years. Net fair value gain on investments in equity shares at FVTOCI........................................................................................................................... — (.) Total current tax (expense) / income .............................................................................................................................................................................. — (.) Total income tax (expense) / income .............................................................................................................................................................................. (.) . The movement in provision for warranties and service coupons are as follows:
Particulars Rupees crores
Warranty Service coupons Opening balance................................................................................................................................................ . . . . Additional net provisions recognised during the year ............................................................. . . . . Amounts utilised during the year............................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) Unwinding of discount...................................................................................................................................... . . . . Reclassified as held for sale......................................................................................................................... — (.) — (.) Closing balance................................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . . Income Taxes
(a) Income Tax recognised in profit or loss Particulars Rupees crores (c)	The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at tax rate to income tax expense reported in Statement of profit and loss is as
follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Profit before tax...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Applicable Income tax rate.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. .% .% Expected income tax expense....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Effect of income exempt from tax / non taxable on compliance of conditions ..................................................................................... (.) (.) Effect of income chargeable at specified tax rates ..................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Effect of expenses / provisions not deductible in determining taxable profit............................................................................................ . . Reversal of deferred tax liabilities ........................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) — Effect of utilisation / (recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses............................................................................................................... . (.) Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported income tax expense: In respect of current year................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Effect of net additional / (reversal) of provision in respect of prior years ................................................................................................. — (.) In respect of prior years.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . (.) Others.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total current tax expense ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Reported income tax expense................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. In respect of current year origination and reversal of temporary differences........................................................................................... . (.) Effect of utilisation / (recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses ............................................................................................................. . (.) Reversal of deferred tax liabilities ........................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) — In respect of prior years.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Total deferred tax expense / (income) ........................................................................................................................................................................... . (.) Total income tax expense .......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Current Tax: Deferred Tax: (d) Amounts on which deferred tax asset has not been created and related expiry period
Unused tax losses - capital in nature
Rupees crores Expiry Period
More than five years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Income Taxes (contd.)
(e) . Trade Payables Rupees crores Deferred tax Assets / (Liabilities) (Net) The amount of the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the Balance Sheet are as below
Particulars Balance as at
-- Rupees crores Recognised in
Profit or Loss Recognised Balance as at
in OCI/
--
Reclassified
from other
comprehensive
income Deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets ......................... ,. (.) — ,. Others........................................................................................................................................ . . — . ,. . — ,. Provision for employee benefits............................................................................. . . (.) . Allowances for expected credit losses ............................................................ . . — . Carried forward tax losses ....................................................................................... . (.) — . Others........................................................................................................................................ . . . . (b) . . (.) . (b)-(a) (,.) (.) (.) (,.) Balance as at
-- Recognised in
Profit or Loss (a)
Deferred tax assets Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)(net) ...................................................... Rupees crores
Particulars Recognised Balance as at
in OCI/
--
Reclassified
from other
comprehensive
income Deferred tax liabilities
Property, plant and equipment and Intangible assets ......................... ,. Others........................................................................................................................................ (.) — ,. Particulars . . – Trade payable......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. – Acceptances............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,.
,. ,.
,. Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises.................................................................................................................
Total outstanding dues other than micro enterprises and small enterprises Micro and Small enterprises have been identified by the Company on the basis of the information available. Total outstanding dues of Micro and
Small enterprises, which are outstanding for more than the stipulated period and other disclosures as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Development Act, (hereinafter referred to as “the MSMED Act”) are given below:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Dues remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year for micro and small enterprises
– Principal.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Interest on the above..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
(b)	Interest paid in terms of Section of the MSMED Act along with the amount of payment made to the
supplier beyond the appointed day during the year
– Principal paid beyond the appointed date............................................................................................................................................................
– Interest paid in terms of Section of the MSMED Act...........................................................................................................................
(c)	Amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay on payments made beyond the appointed day
during the year...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(d)	Further interest due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as
above are actually paid to the small enterprises ............................................................................................................................................
(e) Amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid........................................................................................................................................... .
. .
. .
. .
. . . .
. .
. (a) Ageing of trade payables Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment . . — . ,. (.) — ,. Provision for employee benefits............................................................................. . . . . Allowances for credit losses ................................................................................... . (.) — . Carried forward tax losses ....................................................................................... . . — . Others........................................................................................................................................ . . (.) . (b) . . . . Accrued Expenses.................................................................................... ,. (b)-(a) (,.) . . (,.) Net trade payables.............................................................................. ,. (a)
Deferred tax assets Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)(net) ...................................................... Less than year - years - years More than years Total Trade Payables
MSME................................................................................................................ . . — — — . Others............................................................................................................... ,. ,. . . . ,. Disputed dues - Others........................................................................ — — — — . . ,. ,. . . . ,. Rupees crores . Other Non Financial Liabilities
Rupees crores
Particulars Not due Non-Current Particulars Current Statutory dues (other than income taxes)......................................................................................... — — ,. ,. Contract Liabilities................................................................................................................................................ . . . . Others............................................................................................................................................................................ — — . . Total ............................................................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Not due Less than year - years - years More than years Total Trade Payables
MSME................................................................................................................ . . . — — . Others............................................................................................................... ,. ,. . . . ,. Disputed dues - Others........................................................................ — — — — . . ,. ,. . . . ,. Others mainly include salary deductions and TDS payable. Accrued Expenses.................................................................................... ,. There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund. Net trade payables.................................................................................. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Revenue from Operations
Particulars Rupees crores From contract with customers (as defined under Ind AS )
Sale of products.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Sale of services............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Other operating revenue^.................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. – Government grant and incentives.............................................................................................................................................................................. . . – Others............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . . . ,. ,. Operating revenue from other sources Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
^ Other operating revenue mainly includes income from oil royalty and scrap sales. Revenue disaggregation as per nature of products and services and geography has been included in segment information (refer note ).
Reconciliation of revenue recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss with contracted price
Rupees crores
Particulars . Cost of materials consumed
Particulars Rupees crores Opening inventories............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Purchases...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Closing inventories.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Less: Reclassified as held for sale............................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
Particulars Rupees crores Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Manufactured components............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Opening inventories: Revenue from contract with customers as per the contract price.................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Less: Trade discounts, volume rebates, returns, etc. .................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Revenue from contract with customers as per the Statement of Profit and Loss................................................................... ,. ,. Stock-in-trade............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Manufactured components............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Less: Closing inventories: . Income from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
Rupees crores
Particulars Less: Reclassified as held for sale............................................................................................................................................................................................... — . Net (increase) in inventories...................................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) (a) Dividend income.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (b) Interest income on loans given........................................................................................................................................................................................ . . (c) Gains on derivatives on interest in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures............................................................................ . . (d) Profit on sale of investments............................................................................................................................................................................................ . — (a) (e) Reversal of impairment of investments..................................................................................................................................................................... . — Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Other Income
Rupees crores
Particulars
(a) Interest Income
– On Financial Assets measured at Amortised Cost.......................................................................................................................................... . . – On financial assets at FVTOCI....................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . — . Employee Benefits Expense
Particulars Rupees crores Salaries and wages, including bonus............................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. (b) Contribution to provident and other funds............................................................................................................................................................. . . (c) Equity settled share based payments (refer note ).................................................................................................................................... . . (d) Staff welfare expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Finance Costs
Particulars
(a) Rupees crores Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.................................................................................................... . . Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets................................................................................................................................. . . Interest on lease liabilities .................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . (b) Dividend income on investments classified as financial assets (c) Net gain / (losses) arising on financial assets / liabilities measured at FVTPL**........................................................................... . . (d) Other non operating income (net of directly attributable expenses)#............................................................................................... . . . . (b) Other borrowing costs.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. . Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . ** includes income on current investments Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) & on non current investments Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores).
#  includes gain of Rs. . crores on transfer of identified assets and business pertaining to the Last Mile Mobility business in the current year. Other borrowing costs include discounting charges and unwinding of interest on other liabilities / provisions. The weighted average capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is .% p.a.
(: .% p.a.) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense
Particulars
Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment................................................................................................................................................................ Rupees crores ,. ,. Depreciation of right-of-use assets............................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Amortisation of intangible assets................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Impairment of property, plant & equipment, intangible assets and intangible assets under development........................... . . Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Loss from investment related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures
Particulars Rupees crores (a) Impairment of investment..................................................................................................................................................................................................... . — (b) Loss on derivatives on interest in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures................................................................................ . . Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . . Other Expenses
Particulars Rupees crores Stores consumed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Tools consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Power and fuel......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Freight outward........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Repairs and maintenance.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . Advertisements......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) As per section of the Companies Act, , the Company is required to spend % of its average net profit of the immediately three preceding
financial years on CSR.
Rupees crores
Particulars
a)	Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the year based on % of average net profits.......... . . b)	Amount spent during the year on:
i) Construction / acquisition of assets held by the Company................................................................................................................ — — ii) On purposes other than above............................................................................................................................................................................. . . c)	Unspent amount at the end of the year.................................................................................................................................................................... — — The Company’s purpose, “Drive positive change in the lives of our communities. Only when we enable others to rise will we rise”, propelled the Company’s
CSR endeavours. The Company continued to play a catalytic role in bringing about social, economic, and environmental change by investing in projects
that empowered girls and women, and contributed to environmental conservation. This enabled the Company to achieve a higher social impact on the
communities and the planet. Amount recognised as expense in profit or loss is Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). Further, the Company does not wish to carry forward any
excess amount spent during the year.
. Exceptional Items (net)
Previous year’s Exceptional items includes the following:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Profit on transfer / sale of certain long term investments.............................................................................................................................................................................. . . Sale of certain freehold land................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . . Impairment loss on certain long term investments................................................................................................................................................................................................ (,.) Sales promotion expenses................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Travelling and conveyance expense........................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Impairment of Property Plant and Equipment, Intangibles assets and certain other assets................................................................................................... (.) Legal and professional charges [refer note (a)]................................................................................................................................................................ . . Reversal of impairment loss on an investment.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . CSR expenditure (refer note )................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) Hire and service charges................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Miscellaneous expenses [refer note (b), (c) & (d)]........................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Rupees crores
Particulars Notes:
(a) Auditors’ remuneration (net of taxes, where applicable) included in legal and professional charges are as below:
Particulars . Earning Per Share (EPS) Rupees crores Profit for the year for basic EPS (Rupees crores).................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Profit for the year diluted EPS (Rupees crores)....................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing basic EPS................................................................ ,,,, ,,,, . . Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary (Equity) Shares............................................................................................................................................. ,, ,, Other Services................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Reimbursement of expenses............................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing diluted EPS............................................................ ,,,, ,,,, Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Basic Earnings per share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs. per share)..................................................................................................................... . . Diluted Earnings per share (Rs.)........................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Audit Fees.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Statutory Auditors:
Audit Fees (including quarterly limited reviews).................................................................................................................................................... Cost Auditors: (b) Foreign exchange gain recognised in profit or loss - Rs. . crores (: gain of Rs. . crores). (c) Short term lease expenses recognised during the year - Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). (d) Includes contribution to political parties - Rs. Nil (: Rs. . crores). MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Employee Benefits
(a) General description of defined benefit plans: (i) . Employee Benefits (contd.)
(c) Details of defined benefit plans as per actuarial valuation are as below:
Rupees crores Gratuity The Company operates a gratuity plan covering qualifying employees. The benefit payable is the greater of the amount calculated as per the
Payment of Gratuity Act or the Company scheme applicable to the employee. The benefit vests upon completion of five years of continuous
service and once vested it is payable to employees on retirement or on termination of employment. In case of death while in service, the
gratuity is payable irrespective of vesting. The Company makes annual contribution to the group gratuity scheme administered by the Life
Insurance Corporation of India through its Gratuity Trust Fund. Particulars (ii) (i) Amounts recognised in profit or loss Post - retirement medical The Company provides post retirement medical cover to select grade of employees to cover the retiring employee and their spouse upto a
specified age through mediclaim policy on which the premiums are paid by the Company. The eligibility of the employee for the benefit as well
as the amount of medical cover purchased is determined by the grade of the employee at the time of retirement. (iii) Post - retirement housing allowance The Company operates a post retirement benefit scheme for a certain grade of employees in which a monthly allowance determined on the
basis of the last drawn basic salary at the time of retirement, is paid to the retiring employee in lieu of housing.
(b) Risk exposure
Though its defined benefit plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: (i) Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to government bond yields; if plan assets underperform compared
to this yield, this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans may hold equity type assets, which may carry volatility and
associated risk. (ii) Changes in bond yields A decrease in government bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value
of the plan’s investment in debt instruments. (iii) Inflation risk The present value of some of the defined benefit plan obligations are calculated with reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. The post retirement medical benefit obligation is
sensitive to medical inflation and accordingly, an increase in medical inflation rate would increase the plan’s liability. (iv) Life expectancy The present value of defined benefit plan obligation is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants, both
during and after the employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. Funded Plan Unfunded Plans
Post retirement medical
benefits Gratuity Current service cost................................................................................. . Past service cost........................................................................................ — Net interest expense / (income)......................................................
Total amount included in employee benefits expense Post retirement
housing allowance . . . . . — (.) — — — (.) (.) . . . . . . (.) . . . (ii) Amounts recognised in other comprehensive
income
Remeasurement (gains) / losses:
a) Actuarial (gains) / losses arising from changes in – demographic assumptions....................................................... . — . — — — – financial assumptions.................................................................. . (.) . (.) . (.) – experience adjustments............................................................ (.) . (.) . . (.) b)	Return on plan assets, excluding amount included
in net interest expense / (income)........................................ (.) (.) — — — — Total amount recognised in other comprehensive
income................................................................................................................ (.) (.) (.) (.) . (.) Opening defined benefit obligation............................................... . . . . . . Additions / (Deletions) through business combinations/
inter company transfers........................................................................ (.) . — — — — Current service cost................................................................................. . . . . . . Past service cost........................................................................................ — — (.) — — — Interest expense......................................................................................... . . . . . . . — . — — — – financial assumptions......................................................................... . (.) . (.) . (.) – experience adjustments................................................................... (.) . (.) . . (.) Benefits paid.................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Closing defined benefit obligation.................................................. . . . . . . Opening fair value of plan assets.................................................. . . — — — — Interest income............................................................................................ . . — — — — Return on plan assets excluding interest income.............. . . — — — — Contribution by employer..................................................................... . . . . . . Benefits paid.................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Closing fair value of plan assets . . — — — — (iii) Changes in the defined benefit obligation Remeasurements (gains) / losses arising from changes in – demographic assumptions.............................................................. (iv) Changes in fair value of plan assets MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Employee Benefits (contd.)
(c) . Employee Benefits (contd.)
(d) Trust-managed Provident fund: Details of defined benefit plans as per actuarial valuation are as below: (contd.)
Rupees crores
Particulars Funded Plan Unfunded Plans
Post retirement medical
benefits Gratuity (v) Net defined benefit obligation
Defined benefit obligation.................................................................... . . . . . . Fair value of plan assets....................................................................... . . — — — — Surplus / (Deficit)....................................................................................... . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Current portion of the above............................................................ — — (.) (.) (.) (.) Non current portion of the above................................................. . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.)
Rupees crores (ii) Defined benefit obligation.......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Fair value of plan assets............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Surplus / (Deficit)............................................................................................................................................................................................................. — (.) Discount rate....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio (years)................................................................................................................ . . Guaranteed rate of returns....................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Net defined benefit obligation Actuarial assumptions The Company has recognised an obligation of Rs. Nil (: Rs. . crores) on account of interest rate guarantee through OCI. The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds. Discount rate%.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is . years (: . years). Attrition rate%..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% The expected contribution payable to the plan next year is Rs. . crores. Cost inflation%.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - % - % Particulars
(vi) Actuarial assumptions (vii) Quantitative sensitivity analysis for impact of significant assumptions on defined benefit
obligation are as below:
One percentage point increase in discount rate.......................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point decrease in discount rate........................................................................................................................................ . . One percentage point increase in salary growth rate............................................................................................................................. . . One percentage point decrease in salary growth rate........................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point increase in attrition rate.......................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point decrease in attrition rate......................................................................................................................................... . . One percentage point increase in medical inflation rate....................................................................................................................... . .
(.) One percentage point decrease in medical inflation rate..................................................................................................................... (.) (viii) Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
Upto year............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . to years........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . to years........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . years and above.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. 	Cost of inflation includes an estimate of medical inflation and future salary increases considered in actuarial valuation takes account of
inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is . years (: . years). The Company expects to contribute Rs. . crores to the Gratuity Fund in the year ending 31st March, . Rupees crores Particulars
(i) Post retirement
housing allowance The Company’s contribution to Provident fund and Superannuation fund aggregating Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) has been
recognised in profit or loss under ‘Employee benefits expense’. . Employee Stock Option Plan The Company has setup Mahindra & Mahindra Employees Stock Option Trust (M&M ESOP Trust) and allotted certain ordinary shares which it holds for
the benefit of the employees and issues them to the eligible employees as per the recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee
(NRC).
Mahindra and Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme – (“ Scheme”): The Company has granted options at an exercise price of Rs . which vests in to instalments ranging from to months from the date of
grant. The exercise period of the options ranges from year to years from the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a
minimum of or number of options vested, whichever is lower.
Summary of stock options
Particulars No. of stock
options Weighted average
exercise price (Rs.) Options outstanding on 1st April, ................................................................................................................................................ ,, . Options granted during the year.............................................................................................................................................................. ,, . Options forfeited / lapsed during the year........................................................................................................................................ ,, . Options exercised during the year.......................................................................................................................................................... ,, . Options outstanding on March, ......................................................................................................................................... ,, . Options vested but not exercised on 31st March, .......................................................................................................... ,, . st MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Capital Management . Employee Stock Option Plan (contd.)
Average share price on the date of exercise of the options are as under
Date of exercise Weighted average
share price (Rs.) 01st April, to 31st March, ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. The Company’s capital management strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. The same is
done through a mix of either equity and / or preference and / or convertible and / or combination of short term / long term debt as may be appropriate. The Company determines the amount of capital required on the basis of its product, capital expenditure, operations and strategic investment plans. The
same is funded through a combination of capital sources be it either equity and / or preference and / or convertible and / or combination of short term/
long term debt as may be appropriate.
The capital structure is monitored on the basis of net debt to equity and maturity profile of overall debt portfolio of the Company. Information in respect of options outstanding as at 31st March, Range of exercise price Number of
options Weighted average
remaining life Rs. .*.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,, . years Rs. ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,, . years Net Debt and Equity is given in the table below:
Rupees crores
Particulars
Total Equity........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. . ,. Net Debt * adjusted for the effect of bonus Short term debt...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The fair values of options granted during the year are as follows: Long term debt........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. No. of Years
vesting Fair value per
option Gross Debt............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... May, ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... years Rs. ,. Current investments............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. 09th November, ........................................................................................................................................................................................ years Rs. ,. Cash and bank balances.................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Net Debt.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) 09th November, ........................................................................................................................................................................................ years Rs. ,. Total Capital deployed................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. 13th February, ........................................................................................................................................................................................... years Rs. ,. Grant Date
th In the course of its business, the Company is exposed to certain financial risks namely credit risk, interest risk, currency risk & liquidity risk. The Company’s
primary focus is to achieve better predictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects on its financial performance. Grant date & Vesting period
25th May, ( years vesting) 09th November, ( years
vesting) . Financial instruments
Financial Risk Management Framework The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Options Pricing Model and the significant assumptions made in this regard are as follows: Particulars Less: 09th November, 13th February, ( years
( years vesting)
vesting) The financial risks are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policy which has been approved by its Board of Directors.
(a) Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates etc. could affect the Company’s income or the
value of its holdings of financial instruments including cash flow. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk
exposures within acceptable parameters, while maximising the return. Risk free interest rate...................................................................................................... .% .% .% .% Expected life........................................................................................................................... years Years Years Years The Company’s exposure to currency risk relates primarily to the Company’s operating activities including anticipated sales, purchases and
borrowings where the transactions are denominated in a currency other than the Company’s functional currency. Expected volatility.............................................................................................................. .% .% .% .% Expected dividend yield.................................................................................................... .% .% .% .% Exercise Price (Rs.) .......................................................................................................... Stock Price (Rs.) ................................................................................................................ ,. ,. ,. ,. Stock options granted to employees are accounted in accordance with the requirements of IND AS - Share based payment. Consequently, share
based payment expense recognised in profit or loss after adjusting for reversals on account of options forfeited amounted to Rs. . crores for
the year ended 31st March (: Rs. . crores) and included in salaries, wages and bonus, etc. The amount excludes Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores) charged to subsidiaries for options issued to / held by their employees. (i) Currency Risk The Company’s foreign currency exposures are managed in accordance with its Foreign Exchange Risk Management Policy which has been
approved by its Board of Directors. The Company hedges its foreign currency risk mainly by way of forward covers. Other derivative instruments
may be used if deemed appropriate. The carrying amounts of the Company’s foreign currency exposure at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars US Dollar Euro KRW Others Total Financial assets............................................................................. ,. . . . ,. Financial liabilities....................................................................... . . . . . Financial assets............................................................................. . ,. — . ,. Financial liabilities....................................................................... . . . . . As at March, st As at 31st March, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Financial instruments (contd.)
(a) Market Risk Management (contd.) . Financial instruments (contd.) Hedge Accounting - Forwards Details of Forward Foreign Currency Contracts outstanding at the end of reporting period
Particulars (ii) The movements in Cash Flow Hedge Reserve for instruments designated in a cash flow hedge are as follows: Rupees crores Notional value
# Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Notional value
# Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Cash Flow Hedges
Sell currency Rupees crores Particulars Balance as at the beginning of the year................................................................................................................................................... . (.) (Gains) / Losses transferred to Profit or Loss on occurrence of the forecast transaction................................... (.) . Change in fair value of effective portion of cash flow hedges.................................................................................................. . . Total..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) . Deferred tax effect on above............................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Balance as at the end of the year................................................................................................................................................................. . . . . Of the above: Maturing less than year Balance relating to continuing hedges........................................................................................................................................................ — EUR............................................................................................................ — — ,. (.) — USD............................................................................................................ ,. . . (.) — ZAR............................................................................................................ . . . (.) — AUD............................................................................................................ . . . . Total...................................................................................................................... . (iii) Sensitivity Analysis Foreign Currency Sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
Rupees crores (.) There are no significant transactions of hedges which are ineffective.
#	Notional value of respective currency pair have been converted into presentation currency i.e Rupees (INR) using year end closing
exchange rate. Particulars Currency Change in rate Year ended 31st March, .................................................................................... USD / INR Year ended 31st March, ......................................................................................... The Company also has outstanding forward exchange contracts that are not accounted as hedges. Details of the same are as below.
Rupees crores
Particulars Notional value
# Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Notional value
# Carrying amount
of hedging
instrument
included in Other
Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Buy currency
— JPY............................................................................................................. . (.) . (.) — EUR............................................................................................................ . (.) . (.) (.) (.) #	Notional value of respective currency pair have been converted into presentation currency i.e Rupees (INR) using year end closing
exchange rate. * Effect on
profit before
tax Effect on
pre-tax
equity* % . — EUR / INR % . — USD / INR % . (.) EUR / INR % . — Includes items directly accounted in reserves. The sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because the exposure at the end of the reporting period does
not reflect the exposure during the year.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on exposure to interest rate for both derivative and non-derivative instruments
at the end of reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the
reporting period, was outstanding for the whole year. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings
affected, after the impact of hedge accounting. With all other variables held constant, the Company’s profit before tax is affected through the
impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Currency Increase/
decrease in
basis points Effect on
profit before
tax Effect on
pre-tax
equity Year ended 31st March, .................................................................................... INR — — Year ended 31st March, ......................................................................................... INR . — MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Financial instruments (contd.)
(b) . Financial instruments (contd.) Credit risk management (c) Credit Risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Company. The Company
has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating
the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Company’s exposure are continuously monitored. (i) Financial Guarantees 
In addition, the Company is exposed to credit risk in relation to financial guarantees given to banks. The Company’s maximum exposure in this
respect is the maximum amount, the Company would have to pay, if the guarantee is called on. The amount recognised in Balance Sheet as
other financial liabilities and maximum exposure details are as given below:
Rupees crores
Particulars (ii) (i) Maturity profile of non-derivative financial liabilities The following tables detail the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment
periods. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the
Company can be required to pay and includes both interest and principal cash flows.
Rupees crores
Particulars Less than Year - Years - Years Years and
above As at 31st March, Maximum exposure.................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Short term borrowings - Principal............................................................................. . — — — Amount recognised as liability ........................................................................................................................................................................ . . Short term borrowings - Interest............................................................................... . — — — Long term borrowings - Principal............................................................................... — . . . Long term borrowings - Interest................................................................................. . . . ,. Lease liabilities (including interest)........................................................................... . . . . Trade payables.......................................................................................................................... ,. — — — Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................. ,. . . . Trade Receivables Amounts pertaining to these collaterals are as given below:
Particulars Financial Guarantees............................................................................................................ . — — — Dealer Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. . ,. Bank Guarantees.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . As at March, Others (including Letters of Credit)................................................................................................................................................................ . . Short term borrowings - Principal............................................................................. ,. — — — Short term borrowings - Interest............................................................................... . — — — Long term borrowings - Principal............................................................................... — ,. . . Reconciliation of loss allowance for Trade Receivables:
Particulars Liquidity risk management Rupees crores The Company applies the simplified approach to provide for expected credit losses prescribed by Ind AS , which permits the use of the
lifetime expected loss provision for all trade receivables. The Company has computed expected credit losses based on a provision matrix which
uses historical credit loss experience of the Company. The Company has taken dealer deposits, bank guarantees etc. which are considered as
collateral and these are considered in determination of expected credit losses, where applicable. Rupees crores st Long term borrowings - Interest................................................................................. . . . ,. Balance as at the beginning of the year............................................................................................................................................... . . Lease liabilities (including interest)........................................................................... . . . . Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Trade payables.......................................................................................................................... ,. — — — Amounts written off during the year............................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................. ,. . . . Impairment losses reversed / written back................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) Financial Guarantees............................................................................................................ . — — — Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. . ,. The Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of financial guarantee contracts are disclosed in Note (b)(i). In respect of other financial assets, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each
class of financial assets. The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Company could be forced to settle under
the arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations
at the end of the reporting period, the Company considers that it is more likely than not that such an amount will not be payable under
the arrangement. Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets Financial
Assets )	Investment in market
linked debentures )	Investment in mutual
funds )	Investment in alternate
investment fund )	Investment in equity
instruments -Quoted Financial
instruments
designated at
FVTOCI-Non
current . . ,. . . Level . Level ,. Level . Level Quoted market price Net asset value Net asset value Quoted market price — — — — For Comparable Companies Method / Comparable
Companies Quoted multiples - compares the price
for which comparable companies are traded on the
capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of Balance Sheet,
Statement of Profit and Loss along with underlying
assumptions. For comparable companies method / comparable
companies quoted multiples - compares the price for
which comparable companies are traded on the capital
market.
For Discounted cash flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of Balance Sheet,
Statement of profit and loss along with underlying
assumptions. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange
rates at the end of the reporting period) and
contracted rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the
credit risk of counter parties. — — — — Interest Rates to
discount future
cash flow , Financial
Projections Interest Rates to
discount future cash
flow, market multiple
used for comparable
companies. — — Rupees crores — — — — Any change (increase /
decrease) in the discount factor,
financial projections etc. would
entail corresponding change
in the valuation of derivatives
on interest in subsidiaries and
associates and joint ventures. Any change (increase / decrease)
in the discount factor, financial
projections etc. would entail
corresponding change in the
valuation of derivatives on
interest in subsidiaries and
associates and joint ventures. — — STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Non
current Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Current Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Current The Company has also availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit, which are
secured by hypothecation of certain current assets.
Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange
rates at the end of the reporting period) and
contracted rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the
credit risk of counter parties. Collaterals Comparable Companies
Method / Discounted
Cash Flow / Price of
Recent Transaction /
Comparable Companies
Quoted multiples The Company has not offset financial assets and financial liabilities. . Level Offsetting of balances . — Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Non
Current — Financial
Liabilities . )	Derivatives on interest in
subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures Total............................................................................................................................................................................................. Comparable Companies
Method / Discounted
Cash Flow / Price of
Recent Transaction /
Comparable Companies
Quoted multiples — . Level — . . Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Non
Current Commodity futures........................................................................................................................................................... Financial
Assets — )	Derivatives on interest in
subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures — Discounted cash flow
approach . . Level Foreign exchange forward contracts................................................................................................................... . — Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL / FVTOCICurrent — Financial
Liabilities . )	Foreign currency
forwards & commodity
derivatives Total............................................................................................................................................................................................ Discounted cash flow
approach — . Level — . . Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL / FVTOCICurrent Commodity futures........................................................................................................................................................... Financial
Assets — )	Foreign currency
forwards & commodity
derivatives — Relationship of unobservable
inputs to fair value and
sensitivity . Significant
unobservable
input(s) for level hierarchy Foreign exchange forward contracts................................................................................................................... Key inputs (for level and level ) - Years As at 31st March, - Years As at 31st March, Less than Year Valuation technique(s) Particulars Fair value
hierarchy Rupees crores Fair Value (e)
Maturity profile of derivative financial liabilities Fair Value
Category (d)
(ii) Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities The following table details the Company’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial liabilities other than derivatives on interest in subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures. Particulars Liquidity risk management (contd.) Fair Value Disclosures
(i) Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items . Financial instruments (contd.) (f) (c) . Financial instruments (contd.) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Any change (increase / decrease)
in the discount factor, financial
projections etc. would entail
corresponding change in
the valuation of the equity
component and / or the debt
component.
Financial projections
including terminal
growth rate,
operating margins, etc
and discount rates to
discount future cash
flows.
Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Non
current
)	Investments in Optionally Financial
Convertible Cumulative
Assets
Redeemable Preference
Shares / Optionally
Convertible Redeemable
Bonds . . Level Discounted cash flow
approach For Discounted cash flow - Investee's financial
projections. These include forecasts of Balance Sheet,
Statement of Profit and Loss along with underlying
assumptions. —
—
—
Market price
,. Level Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTOCI-Current
)	Investment in debt
Financial
instruments -Commercial Assets
Papers and Certificate of
Deposits ,. —
—
—
Quoted market price
. Level Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTOCI-Current
Financial
Assets
)	Investments in
debentures / bonds . —
—
—
Quoted market price
. Level Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTOCI-Current
Financial
Assets
)	Investment in debt
instrument - government
securities . Any change (increase / decrease)
in the discount factor, financial
projections etc. would entail
corresponding change in
the valuation of the equity
component and / or the debt
component.
Financial projections
including terminal
growth rate,
operating margins, etc
and discount rates to
discount future cash
flows.
Discounted cash flow
approach
. Level Financial
instruments
designated at
FVTOCI-Non
current
Financial
Assets
)	Investment in equity
instruments-Unquoted . —
Quoted market price
— Level Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Non
current
Financial
Assets
)	Investment in other non
current investmentsQuoted . —
Quoted market price
. Level Financial
instruments
measured at
FVTPL-Non
current
Financial
Assets
)	Investment in equity
instruments-Quoted ,. For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of Balance Sheet,
Statement of Profit and Loss along with underlying
assumptions. —
— —
— —
—
Financial
instruments
designated at
FVTOCI-Current
Financial
Assets
)	Investment in equity
instruments -Quoted . . Level Quoted market price Valuation technique(s)
Fair value
hierarchy
Fair Value
Fair Value
Category
Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities
Particulars Fair Value Disclosures (contd.)
(i) Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items (contd.)
(f) . Financial instruments (contd.) — Key inputs (for level and level ) Significant
unobservable
input(s) for level hierarchy Rupees crores STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S Relationship of unobservable
inputs to fair value and
sensitivity . Financial instruments (contd.)
(f) Fair Value Disclosures (contd.) (i) Financial Instruments regularly measured using Fair Value - recurring items (contd.) Reconciliation of Level fair value measurements of financial instruments measured at fair value
Rupees crores
Particulars Unquoted Equity
investment Derivatives on
Interest over
Subsidiaries,
Associates and
Joint Ventures
(Net) Investments
in Optionally /
Compulsorily
Convertible
Preference
Shares/
Debentures Total . (.) . . (a)	in profit or loss............................................................................ — (.) . (.) (b) — — — — Year ended 31st March, Opening balance...............................................................................................
Total gains or losses recognised:
in other comprehensive income...................................... Purchases, issues, sales and settlements:
a) Purchases........................................................................................ . — . . b) Issues.................................................................................................. — — — — c) Sales.................................................................................................... — — — — d) Settlements................................................................................... — — — — Closing balance.................................................................................................. . (.) . . Change in unrealised gains or losses for the year included
in profit or loss for assets & liabilities existing on Balance
Sheet date — (.) . (.) . . . . Year ended March, st Opening balance
Total gains or losses recognised:
(a) in profit or loss............................................................................ — (.) (.) (.) (b) in other comprehensive income...................................... . — — . Purchases, issues, sales and settlements:
a) Purchases........................................................................................ — — . . b) Issues.................................................................................................. — — — — c) Sales.................................................................................................... (.) — — (.) d) Settlements................................................................................... — — — — Closing balance.................................................................................................. . (.) . . Change in unrealised gains or losses for the year included
in profit or loss for assets & liabilities existing on Balance
Sheet date................................................................................................................ — (.) (.) (.) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Financial instruments (contd.)
(f) Fair Value Disclosures (contd.) (ii) Financial Instruments measured at amortised cost
Rupees crores S. No. Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity Kota Farm Services Limited Holiday Club Resorts Rus LLC As at 31st March, Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L. Financial liabilities Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing S.L. Mahindra HZPC Private Limited Holiday Club Canarias Resort Management S.L. Particulars Carrying
Value Fair value
(Level ) Non Current Borrowings
— Debentures....................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Mahindra Fruits Private Limited Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club SLU — Other loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari (w.e.f 1st April, ) Fifth Gear Ventures Limited Arabian Dreams Hotels Apartments LLC Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited ESOP Trust Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Employee Stock
Options Trust As at March, st Financial liabilities
Non Current Borrowings
— Debentures....................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. — Term loans from banks............................................................................................................................................................................ . . — Other loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . There were no transfers between Level and Level during the year. Valuation methodologies of financial instruments not measured at fair value Below are the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for the above financial instruments which are not recorded and
measured at fair value in the company’s financial statements. These fair values were calculated for disclosure purposes only.
Non-Current Borrowings The fair value of borrowings which have a quoted market price in an active market is based on its market price and for other borrowings the fair
value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using a discount rate equivalent to the risk- free rate of return, adjusted for the credit
spread considered by the lenders for instruments of similar maturity and credit quality. Except for the above, carrying value of financial assets / liabilities measured at amortised cost represent reasonable estimate of fair value. . Related Party Disclosures:
(a) . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(a) Related parties where control exists: (contd.) Subsidiaries: (contd.) Related parties where control exists: Subsidiaries: Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Mahindra Holidays & Resorts Harihareshwar Limited Guestline Hospitality Management and Development Service
Limited Mahindra Finance CSR Foundation Mahindra Logistics Limited Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Employee Welfare Trust Lords Freight (India) Private Limited Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Employee Stock
Option Trust x Logistics Private Limited Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited MLL Express Services Private Limited Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited MLL Mobility Private Limited Mahindra Infrastructure Developers Limited V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited (upto 27th March, ) Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited V-Link Automotive Services Private Limited (upto 27th March,
) Knowledge Township Limited V-Link Freight Services Private Limited Industrial Township (Maharashtra) Limited MLL Global Logistics Limited Anthurium Developers Limited Mahindra Water Utilities Limited ZipZap Logistics Private Limited (w.e.f. 22nd December, ) Rathna Bhoomi Enterprises Private Limited Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. Deep Mangal Developers Private Limited Bristlecone Worldwide, Inc (formerly known as Bristlecone
Limited) Moonshine Construction Private Limited Bristlecone Consulting Limited Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Bristlecone International AG Mahindra Hotels and Residences India Limited Bristlecone UK Limited Gables Promoters Private Limited Bristlecone Inc. Heritage Bird (M) Sdn Bhd Bristlecone Middle East DMCC Infinity Hospitality Group Company Limited Bristlecone India Limited Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited Ryono Factory Co., Limited NBS International Limited Ryono Engineering Co., Limited Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited Dia Computer Service Co., Limited Mahindra Europe s.r.l. Ryono Asset Management Co., Limited Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary) Limited Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L. (Liquidated w.e.f. 28th March, ) Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda. Automobili Pininfarina GmbH Erkunt Traktor Sanayii Anonim Şirketi Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited Sampo Rosenlew Oy MH Boutique Hospitality Limited Bristlecone GmbH Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited (w.e.f 29th May, ) Swaraj Engines Limited MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited S. No. Mahindra Racing UK Limited M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited Covington S.a.r.l Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica Limited Gromax Agri Equipment Limited Mahindra Automotive North America Inc. Holiday Club Resorts Oy Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (upto 28th September, ) Trringo.com Limited Mahindra Vehicle Sales and Service Inc. Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt Mumbai Mantra Media Limited Mahindra USA Inc. Mahindra North American Technical Center, Inc. Ownership Services Sweden Ab Mahindra Marine Private Limited (upto 5th June, ) Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co., Limited Mahindra Solarize Private Limited Are Villa AB Marvel Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 11th December, ) Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Limited Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre Mahindra Accelo Limited Holiday Club Sport and Spa hotels AB Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(a) Related parties where control exists: (contd.) Subsidiaries: (contd.)
S. No. Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited Mahindra MiddleEast Electrical Steel Service Centre (FZC) Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia Mahindra Defence Systems Limited Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring FZ-LLC Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordan,LLC. Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited Airvan Pty Limited (upto 30th November, )
Mahindra Airways Limited
Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited
Mahindra Holdings Limited
Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited
Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private Limited
Mahindra eMarket Limited
Mahindra Construction Company Limited
Officemartindia.com Limited
Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited
Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited
(upto 27th December, )
Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited
New Democratic Electoral Trust
Sunrise Initiatives Trust
Mahindra & Mahindra Benefit Trust
Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust
Emergent Solren Private Limited (upto 31st August, ) Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Limited Gipps Aero Pty Limited (upto 30th November, ) Airvan Flight Services Pty Limited (upto 30th November, ) GA8 Airvan Pty Limited (upto 30th November, ) GA200 Pty Limited (upto 30th November, ) Nomad TC Pty Limited (upto 30th November, ) S. No. Name of the entity
Aurangabad Electricals, Limited
Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited
(w.e.f 28th December, )
CIE Automotive India Limited
Golde Pune Automotive India, Private Limited
Golde Wuhan Co., Limited
Mahindra Educational Institutions
Mahindra Knowledge Park Mohali Limited
Medwell Ventures Private Limited (upto 19th April, )
Pininfarina S.P.A.
PSL Media & Communications Limited
PT Tech Mahindra Indonesia
Renew Sunlight Energy Private Limited
Resson Aerospace Corporation
(Liquidated w.e.f 20th September, )
Satyam Venture Engineering Services Private Limited
Tech Mahindra (Americas) Inc.
Tech Mahindra (Beijing) It Services Limited
Tech Mahindra (Nanjing) Co. Limited
Tech Mahindra (Nigeria) Limited
Tech Mahindra (Shanghai) Co. Limited
Tech Mahindra (Singapore) Pte Limited
Tech Mahindra (Switzerland) Sa
Tech Mahindra (Thailand) Limited
Tech Mahindra Arabia Limited
Tech Mahindra Bahrain Ltd W.L.L
Tech Mahindra Business Services Limited
Tech Mahindra Cerium Private Limited
Tech Mahindra Cerium Systems Inc
Tech Mahindra Cerium Systems Sdn. Bhd.
Tech Mahindra Chile Spa
Tech Mahindra Colombia S.A.S . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
b) Other parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year: (contd.) (i) Associates: (contd.)
S. No. Name of the entity
S. No. Name of the entity Tech Mahindra Communications Japan Co., Ltd Tech Mahindra Vietnam Company Limited Tech-Mahindra Bolivia S.R.L. Tech-Mahindra Ecuador S.A Tech-Mahindra De Peru S.A.C. Tech-Mahindra Guatemala S.A Tech-Mahindra Panama, S.A. Tech-Mahindra S.A (ii) Joint Ventures:
S. No. Name of the entity
Astra Solren Private Limited (upto 9th January, )
Kyros Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f 30th November, )
Carnot Technologies Private Limited
Classic Legends Private Limited
Furies Solren Private Limited (w.e.f 14th June, )
Gelos Solren Private Limited (w.e.f 14th June, )
Hazel Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f 2nd June, )
Illuminate Hybren Private Limited (Formerly Known as Icarus
Hybren Private Limited) (w.e.f 30th May, )
Jade Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f 30th November, )
Layer Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f 2nd December, )
Mahindra World City Developers Limited
Martial Solren Private Limited
Mega Suryaurja Private Limited S. No. Name of the entity
Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited
Mahindra Homes Private Limited
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited
Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited
Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited
Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private Limited Neo Solren Private Limited (upto 9th January, ) Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited
(upto 27th April, )
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited
Emergent Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 1st September, )
(upto 9th January, )
(iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP): Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited
Mahindra Susten Private Limited
Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (w.e.f 29th September, )
Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited
Megasolis Renewables Private Limited (Formerly Known As Mahindra
Renewables Private Limited)
Migos Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f 15th December, ) S. No. Name of KMP
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
Dr. Anish Shah
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
Ms. Nisaba Godrej
Mr. Muthiah Murugappan
Dr. Vishakha N. Desai
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta
Mr. T. N. Manoharan
Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (upto 19th December, )
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
Ms. Shikha Sharma
Mr. C. P. Gurnani (upto 19th December, ) (b) Other parties with whom transactions have taken place during the year: (i) Associates:
S. No. Name of the entity
Tech Mahindra Consulting Group Inc.
Tech Mahindra Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima Tech Mahindra Credit Solutions Inc
Tech Mahindra De Mexico S.De R.L.De C.V
Tech Mahindra Defence Technologies Limited
Tech Mahindra Digital Pty Limited
Tech Mahindra Fintech Holdings Limited
Tech Mahindra Foundation
Tech Mahindra France
Tech Mahindra Gmbh
Tech Mahindra Holdco Pty Limited
Tech Mahindra Ict Services (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd
Tech Mahindra It Services Nl B.V. Tech Mahindra Limited
Tech Mahindra Limited Spc
Tech Mahindra Llc
Tech Mahindra London Limited
Tech Mahindra Luxembourg S.A R.L.
Tech Mahindra Mexico Cloud Services, S.De R.L. De C.V
Tech Mahindra Network Services Belgium
Tech Mahindra Network Services International Inc.,
Tech Mahindra Norway As
Tech Mahindra Products Services Singapore Pte. Limited
Tech Mahindra Servicos De Informatica S.A
Tech Mahindra Servicos Ltda
Tech Mahindra South Africa (Pty) Limited
Tech Mahindra Spain S.L.
Tech Mahindra Sweden Ab
Tech Mahindra Technologies Inc.
Tech Mahindra Technology Services Llc Designation
Chairman
Managing Director and CEO
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Nominee Director
Independent Director
Independent Director
Non-Executive Non-Independent Director (iv) Close member of KMP and entities controlled / jointly controlled by KMP: S. No. S. No. Close member of KMP
Mrs. Anuradha Mahindra
Ms. Radhika Nath
Dr. T. N. Gajendran
Entities controlled / jointly controlled by KMP
The Indian & Eastern Engineer Company Private Limited
Araku Originals Private Limited (v) S. No. Name of the entity
Prudential Management & Services Private Limited S. No. Entities controlled / jointly controlled by KMP
Goolestan Investments Private Limited
Gotham Park Projects LLP Entity belonging to Promoter / Promoter Group holding % or more in the Company: (vi) Welfare Funds / Post-Employment benefit plans: S. No. Name of the Fund
M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. M&M Employees’ Welfare Fund No. Mahindra World School Education Trust S. No. Name of the Fund
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Gratuity scheme
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff Provident Fund
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff & Workmen's Superannuation Scheme
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Superannuation Scheme MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c) . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c) The related party transactions are as under:
Rupees crores S.
No. Nature of Transactions Purchases:
Goods............................................................. Services........................................................ Property, Plant and Equipment... Services........................................................ Property, Plant and Equipment... Sold / Redeemed / Received on
liquidation................................................... To Parties.................................................... Close
Entity
members belonging to
of KMP and
Promoter/
Entities
Promoter
controlled/
Group
jointly holding %
controlled by
or more in
KMP the Company Welfare
Funds/
PostEmployment
benefit
plans ,. ,. . — — — — ,. ,. . — — — — ,. . . — — — — ,. . . — — — — . . — — — — — . . . — — — — ,. . . — — — — ,. . . — — — — . . . — — — — . . . — — — — . — — — — — — ,. — — — — — — ,. — . — — — — ,. — . . — — — — . — — — — — S.
No. Nature of Transactions Commission and other benefits
to Non-executive / independent
directors (including nominee
directors) **........................................................ . . — — — — — . — . — — — — . — . — — — — . — . — — — — . . . — — — — Managerial Remuneration............... — — — . — — — — — — . — — — Stock Options.......................................... — — — . — — — — — — . — — — Others (Sitting Fees) #............................ Inter corporate deposits / loan
refunded by parties............................. Interest Income....................................... Dividend received.................................. For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March KMP Close
Entity
members belonging to
of KMP and
Promoter/
Entities
Promoter
controlled/
Group
jointly holding %
controlled by
or more in
KMP the Company Welfare
Funds/
PostEmployment
benefit
plans — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — ,. — . — — — — ,. — . — — — — ,. . . . — — . . — . . — — . . — . — — — — . — . . — — — . ,. — — — — — . ,. — — — — — . — — . . . . . — — . . . . . — — — — — — . — — — — — — . . . — . . — . . . — . — — . . — — . — . . . . — . — . . . . — . — . . . . — . — . . . . — — — . . . . — — — — Finance:
Inter corporate deposits / loan
given / rolled over.................................. Deputation of Personnel:
From Parties............................................. KMP Investments:
Purchased / Subscribed/
Conversion / Bonus.............................. For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March The related party transactions are as under: (contd.)
Rupees crores Sales:
Goods............................................................. Dividend distributed............................. Guarantees Given.................................. Other Transactions:
Other Income........................................... Other Expenses...................................... Reimbursements received from
parties........................................................... Reimbursements made to
parties........................................................... MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.)
(c) . Related Party Disclosures: (contd.) The related party transactions are as under: (contd.) Details of related party transactions with Key Management Personnel are as under:
Rupees crores S.
No. Nature of Transactions Sale of assets / business under
assets / business transfer
agreement.................................................. For the Subsidiaries Associates
Joint
Year Ended
Ventures
31st March KMP Close
Entity
members belonging to
of KMP and
Promoter/
Entities
Promoter
controlled/
Group
jointly holding %
controlled by
or more in
KMP the Company Welfare
Funds/
PostEmployment
benefit
plans . — — — — — — — — — — — — — Trade and Other Receivable........... Inter Corporate Deposits /
loans............................................................... Guarantees given................................... S.
No. Nature of Transaction Name of KMP Salary including perquisites^.................................................................................. Mr. Anand Mahindra Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Outstandings:
Trade and Other Payable................. ,. . . * . — — ,. . . * . — — ,. . . — — — — ,. . . — . — . ,. — . — — — . ,. — . . — — . . . — — — — — . . — — — — — Transactions with related parties are at arm’s length.
# In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme. Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Commission & Sitting fees........................................................................................ Other Contribution to Funds................................................................................... Mr. Anand Mahindra Dr. Anish Shah Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,.
** includes sitting fees and commission paid / payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a partner. Stock Options.................................................................................................................... ^ For the Year Ended
31st March Rupees crores . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Does not include post-employment benefits and other long term benefits based on actuarial valuation as these are done for the company as a whole. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Disclosure required under Section () of the Companies Act, for Loans and Guarantees (net of provision):
a) . Details of Investments made / Inter Corporate Deposits / Loans given to intermediaries: Inter Corporate deposits and Loans A. Details of Investments made or Inter Corporate Deposits / Loans given to Intermediaries: Rupees crores
S. Name
No. Relationship as per
Companies Act, Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited Subsidiary of the Company ,. ,. Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Subsidiary of the Company . . Mahindra Susten Private Limited Subsidiary of the Company — . Classic Legends Private Limited Subsidiary of the Company . . Mahindra Defence Systems Limited Subsidiary of the Company . — Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited Subsidiary of the Company . — Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited Subsidiary of the Company . — NBS International Limited Subsidiary of the Company . — ,. ,. b) Rupees crores
Name of Company Relationship as per
Companies Act, Outstanding B. Outstanding Recognized in
Balance Sheet Mahindra Racing UK Limited Subsidiary of the Company . — . — Mahindra USA Inc. Subsidiary of the Company . — . — Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited Subsidiary of the Company . — — — PF Holding B.V. Associate of the Company . . . . Notes: (a)	Inter corporate deposits given and repaid during the year amounting to Rs. . crores to Mahindra Susten Private Limited, Rs. . crores
to Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited. (b)	Above inter corporate deposits and loans have been given for general business purposes (including investment purposes) and guarantees have
been given against their borrowing obligation which have been taken for general corporate purpose. (c) Refer note for investments. Amount Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited Various . Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited 21st March, . Classic Legends Private Limited 19th December, . Details of further Investments made or Inter Corporate Deposits / Loans given by Intermediary to Ultimate Beneficiary:
Rupees crores Recognized in
Balance Sheet Date of transaction Subsidiary Companies: Guarantees S. Name
No. Name of intermediary Name of ultimate beneficiary Date of transaction Amount Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited Automobili Pininfarina GmbH Various . Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited Green Energy Infra Project Managers Private
Limited 11th July, * Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited Sustainable Energy Infra Investment
Managers Private Limited 31st July, . Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited Sustainable Energy Infra Investment
Managers Private Limited 9th June, * Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited 27th March, . Classic Legends Private Limited BSA Company Limited 15th March, . * Denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. Above transactions are in compliance with relevant provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, ( of ), Companies Act, and Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, .
C. Details of each Intermediary / Ultimate beneficiary:
Name of the Company Relationship as per Companies Registered address
Act, Identification number (CIN/
Others) Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Subsidiary
Limited Sanne House, TwentyEight, Bank Street, Mauritius Mahindra Sustainable
Private Limited Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale U40100MH2017PTC296621
Marg, P. K Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai, India - Energy Subsidiary Automobili Pininfarina GmbH Subsidiary Green Energy Infra Project Associates
Managers Private Limited Dingolfinger Strade , HRB Munchen, Germany
Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale U70200MH2023FTC402056
Marg, P. K Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai, India - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Details of Investments made / Inter Corporate Deposits / Loans given to intermediaries: (contd.)
C. . Segment information (contd.) Details of each Intermediary / Ultimate beneficiary: (cont.)
Name of the Company
Sustainable
Investment
Limited Energy
Managers Relationship as per Companies Registered address
Act, Infra Associates
Private Classic Legends Private Limited BSA Company Limited Subsidiary Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited Mahindra
Limited Summit Subsidiary Subsidiary Agriscience Subsidiary Identification number (CIN/
Others) Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale U66190MH2023FTC401685
Marg, P. K Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai, India - Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale U34101MH2015PTC265665
Marg, P. K Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai, India - Athenia House, - Andover Road, Winchester Hampshire,
United Kingdom, SO23 7BS
Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale U01400MH2000PLC125781
Marg, P. K Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai, India - Mahindra Towers, Dr. G. M. Bhosale U01400MH2018PLC315558
Marg, P. K Kurne Chowk, Worli,
Mumbai, India - . Segment information
Operating Segments The Company is both an operating company, primarily having operations in the Automotive and Farm Equipment segments and a holding company with
a portfolio of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. As part of the group strategy and vision, the Company is focused on operational efficiencies and synergies and driving value creation through partnerships,
mergers and acquisitions in order to generate periodic returns from these portfolio of investments / businesses. The CODM (Chief Operating Decision
Maker) of the Company therefore manages investments / businesses, allocates capital and measures performance under three key verticals, namely
Automotive, Farm Equipment and Services. The Company from current financial year has updated its segment disclosures and in its standalone results has reported five segments, namely Automotive,
Farm Equipment, Auto Investments, Farm Investments and Investments in Industrial Businesses and Consumer Services. The segment related disclosures
for comparative periods have been reclassified to conform with the presentation and reporting in the current period. Further, in accordance with the above change, the Company has reported the dividend, interest and other investment related income pertaining to the
aforesaid investment segments as ‘Income from Investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures’ as applicable. Similarly, loss pertaining
to the aforesaid investment segments is reported as ‘Loss from Investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures’. Such incomes (net)
which were reported as ‘Other income’ in comparative periods have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation.
Description of each of the reportable segments for all periods presented, is as under:
a) Automotive: This segment comprises of sale of automobiles, two wheelers, spares, construction equipments and related services; b) Farm Equipment: This segment comprises of sale of tractors, implements, spares, powerol and related services; c) Auto Investment: This segment comprises of investments in automotive related subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures; d) Farm Investments: This segment comprises of investments in farm equipment related subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures; e)	Industrial Businesses and Consumer Services’ segment: This segment comprises of investments in other than automotive & farm related subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures; The measurement of each segment’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities is consistent with the accounting policies that are used in preparation of
the financial statements. Segment result represents the profit before interest and tax without allocation of corporate income and expenses. Operating Segments (contd.)
Information regarding the Company’s reportable segments is presented below: Rupees crores Particulars Automotive Farm
Equipment Auto
Investments ,. ,. . Investment
in Industrial
Farm
Businesses and
Investments Consumer Services Total
Segment Eliminations Total ,,. — ,,. (.) — Revenue
External Revenue............................................................................... . ,. Inter Segment Revenue................................................................. . . — — — . Income from operation............................................................... ,. ,. . . ,. ,,. ,. ,. . . ,. ,. (.) ,,. Results
Segment Result................................................................................... — ,. Less: Finance costs............................................................................ . Add: Unallocated corporate income net of
unallocated expenses...................................................................... ,. Profit before tax.............................................................................. ,. Income Taxes......................................................................................... ,. Profit after tax.................................................................................. ,. Out of total external revenue above:
Revenue from contracts with customers............................. ,. Revenue from other sources..................................................... . Income from investment related to subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures ................................................. ,. Total ,,. Other Information
Segment Assets................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — Unallocated Corporate Assets................................................... ,. Total Assets.........................................................................................
Segment Liabilities............................................................................ ,.
,. ,. ,. — . — ,. — ,. Unallocated Corporate Liabilities ,. Total Liabilities.................................................................................. ,. Additions to non current assets.............................................. ,. ,. — — — ,. — ,. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense.... ,. . — — — ,. — ,. Information regarding the Company’s reportable segments is presented below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Investment
in Industrial
Farm
Businesses and
Investments Consumer Services Automotive Farm
Equipment Auto
Investments External Revenue............................................................................... ,. ,. . . ,. Inter Segment Revenue................................................................. . . — — — ,. ,. . . ,. ,. (,.) (.) Total
Segment Eliminations Total ,. — ,. . (.) — ,. ,. (.) ,. ,. ,. — ,. Revenue Exceptional items gains for comparative periods
included.....................................................................................................
Income from operation............................................................... . Results
Segment Result...................................................................................
Less: Finance costs . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Segment information (contd.)
Particulars . Segment information (contd.)
Revenue from type of products and services Automotive Farm
Equipment Auto
Investments Investment
in Industrial
Farm
Businesses and
Investments Consumer Services Total
Segment The operating segments are primarily based on nature of products and services and hence the Revenue from external customers of each segment is
representative of revenue based on products and services.
Eliminations Total Add: Unallocated corporate income net of
unallocated expenses...................................................................... . Profit before tax.............................................................................. ,. Income Taxes......................................................................................... ,. Profit after tax.................................................................................. ,. Geographical Information:
Rupees crores
Particulars Revenue from External Customers................................ Domestic Overseas Total Domestic Overseas Total ,. ,. ,,. ,. ,. ,. comprising of: Out of total external revenue above:
Revenue from contracts with customers............................. ,. – Revenue from contracts with customers...... ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Revenue from other sources..................................................... . Income from investment related to subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures ................................................. – Revenue from other sources................................. . . . . . . ,. ,. . ,. ,. . ,. Total............................................................................................................. ,. –	Income from investment related to
subsidiaries, associates and
joint ventures....................................................................
Non-Current Assets.................................................................... ,. — ,. ,. — ,. Other Information
Segment Assets................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — Unallocated Corporate Assets................................................... ,. Total Assets.........................................................................................
Segment Liabilities............................................................................ ,.
,. ,. ,. — . — ,. — ,. Unallocated Corporate Liabilities ,. Total Liabilities.................................................................................. ,. Domestic includes sales to customers located in India and service income accrued in India. Income from investment includes income from companies
incorporated in India Overseas includes sales and services rendered to customers located outside India. Income from investment includes income from companies incorporated
outside India
Information about major customers Additions to non current assets.............................................. ,. . — — — ,. — ,. During the years ended 31st March, and 31st March, no revenues from transactions with a single external customer amount to % or more
of the Company’s revenues from external customers. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense ,. . — — — ,. — ,. . Contingent Liability & Commitments: Note:
Additions to non-current assets comprises of capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress, intangible assets including those
under development and capital advances. (A) Contingent Liability: (a) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts comprise of: (i)	Excise Duty, Sales Tax and Service Tax claims disputed by the Company relating to issues of applicability and classification before tax
aggregating Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores). (ii) Taxation matters: (b) (i)	Demands against the Company not acknowledged as debts and not provided for, in respect of which the Company is in appeal and
exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed: Other matters (excluding claims where amounts are not ascertainable): Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). – Income-tax: Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores) net off MAT credit. (ii)	Items in respect of which the Company has succeeded in appeal, but the Income-tax Department is pursuing / likely to pursue in appeal/
reference and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed: – Income-tax matters: Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). (c)	In respect of (a) & (b) above, it is not practicable for the Company to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of
cash flows, if any. (d) Financial guarantee given on behalf of Subsidiaries / Associates / Joint Ventures companies [refer note (b)(i)] (B) Commitments: (i)	The estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided is Rs. ,. crores
(: Rs. ,. crores) (ii)	The Company has contractual obligations towards long-term material purchase commitments for Rs. ,. crores as at
31st March, . (iii) (iv) Other commitments Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) Uncalled liability on partly paid equity shares of subsidiaries as at 31st March, Rs. . crores (: Rs. ,. crores) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Other information: . Additional regulatory information: (contd.) Research and Development expenditure
(a) a. In recognised Research and Development units: (i)	Expensed to Profit or Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Company, aggregate Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores) [excluding depreciation and amortisation of Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores)]. (ii) Development expenditure incurred during the year Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores). (iii) Capitalisation of assets Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). (b) In other units: (i)	Expensed to Profit or Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made by the Company, aggregate Rs. . crores (:
Rs. . crores) [excluding depreciation and amortisation of Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores)] . (ii) Development expenditure incurred during the year Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). (iii) Capitalisation of assets Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). . Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) issued by Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) During the year ended March , the Company formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (‘MEAL’) to undertake the
four-wheel passenger electric business and transferred certain existing assets to MEAL for cash consideration of Rs . crores. Further, in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement
entered with British International Investment Plc (BII), wherein the Company and BII each agreed to invest Rs . crores in MEAL in tranches,
both the Company and BII have invested Rs. ,. crores each till 31st March . The investment by the Company is in equity shares of MEAL
whereas investment by BII is in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MEAL. The total investment by the Company in MEAL amounted to
Rs. ,. crores as at 31st March (: Rs . crores). Further, during the year ended 31st March , in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the amended and restated
Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement entered with British International Investment Plc (BII) and Jongsong Investments Pte
Ltd (“Temasek”) wherein the Temasek agreed to invest Rs. ,. crores in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MEAL in one or
more tranches, Temasek has invested Rs. . crores till 31st March . Unless agreed to, in writing, for an early conversion, each CCPS is compulsorily and automatically convertible into such number of equity shares as
determined as per a pre-determined formula at the conversion date, as per terms and conditions of the agreement (s) entered between the Company, BII
and Temasek. Further, in accordance with the shareholders’ agreement, the Company shall take best efforts to provide BII and Temasek with a complete
exit between 1st November and 1st November through certain exit options (or a combination thereof), as may be determined by the Company
in its sole discretion. In case exit has not been provided to BII prior to 1st November , BII shall have the right upto 31st October to require full exit to be provided
by the Company or by its affiliates and / or a third party at the higher of fair market value and the amount invested by BII. In case exit has not been provided to Temasek prior to November , Temasek shall have the right up to October to require full exit to
be provided by the Company by way of share swap if the fair market value of the Temasek interest is higher than the amount invested by it. However, the
Company shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to provide cash exit to Temasek at the higher of fair market value of the Temasek interest and the
amount invested by it. Further, if the Fair market value of the Temasek interest is lower than its investment amount, neither the Company nor Temasek
shall be obligated to undertake their respective obligations with respect to the share swap.
st st Ratios: (contd.)
Particulars Net Capital Turnover (times)
(Revenue from operations) / [Average working capital (Current assets less Current liabilities) for the
period]............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Net Profit margin (%)
(Net Profit for the period / Revenue from operations).............................................................................................................. .% .% Return on Capital Employed (%)
(Profit before interest and tax / (Average Total Equity + Average Total Debt for the period)...................... .% .% Return on Investment (%)
(Income earned on investments / Average Investment for the period).......................................................................... .% .% Explanatory notes: (i)	Cost of materials consumed for the purpose of Inventory turnover ratio includes Purchases of stock-in-trade and Changes in inventories of
finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress. (ii)	Investments includes current and non-current investments including Fixed deposits, Mutual funds, Corporate deposits, Inter corporate deposits
excluding investments in Equity instruments. Explanation for change in the ratios by more than %: (i)	Debt Equity Ratio (times): The debt equity ratio is at . in current year as against . in previous year primarily due to repayment of
borrowings during the year. (ii)	Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times): The debt service coverage ratio is at . in current year as against . in previous year primarily due
to repayment of borrowings during the year. (iii) (iv) Net profit margin (%): Ratio has improved on account of increase in profit for the year. (v) (vi)	Return on Investment (%): The return on investment is at .% in current year as against .% in previous year due to higher mark to
market gain on invested surplus and higher yields on investments during the year. Return on Equity (%): Ratio has improved on account of increase in profit after tax in current year.
Return on Capital Employed (%): Ratio has improved on account of increase in profit after tax in current year and repayment of borrowing b. Quarterly returns / statements filed by the Company with banks are in agreement with the books of accounts. c. Transaction with Struck off Companies:
Rupees crores
Name of the Struck off Company Receivables Payables Other
Outstanding
Balances Assets Argus Media Private Limited — * — — — Asmita Fire Safety Private Limited * — — — — Babace Pneumatics Private Limited — * — — — Badri Sarraf Fin & Mutual Benefit Co Limited — — — — BKG Securities Private Limited — — — — C Cube Sports Private Limited — . — — — Dimensions Engineering Technologies Private Limited — . — — — Dreams Comtrade Private Limited — — — — Elegant Finvest Private Limited — — — — Enffluence Technologies Private Limited — . — — — Frontline Corporate Finance Limited — — — — , Garlick Designing & Cons Private Limited — — — — . Additional regulatory information:
a. Ratios:
Particulars Debt-Equity Ratio (times)
(Long term Borrowings + Short term Borrowings) / (Total Equity)................................................................................... . . Debt Service Coverage Ratio (times)
(Profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, impairments and exceptional items) /
(Gross interest for the period + Principal repayments within a year).............................................................................. . . Return on Equity (%)
(Net Profit for the period / Average Total Equity for the period)....................................................................................... .% .% Inventory Turnover (times)
(Cost of materials consumed / Average Inventories for the period)................................................................................. . . Trade Receivables Turnover (times)
(Revenue from sale of goods and services) / (Average Trade Receivable for the period)................................ . . Trade Payables Turnover (times)
(Purchase of goods and services + Other Expenses) / (Average Trade Payable for the period).................. . . Other
Number of
Outstanding
Shares held
Balances - by Struck off
Liabilities
Companies MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - STA N DA L O N E
ACCO U N T S . Additional Regulatory Information: (contd.)
c. . Additional regulatory information: (contd.) Transaction with Struck off Companies: (contd.) c. Transactions with struck off companies: (contd.) Rupees crores
Name of the Struck off Company Receivables Payables Other
Outstanding
Balances Assets Garsons Engineers Private Limited * — — — — General Managers Private Limited — . — — Gomti Motors Private Limited . — — Greenpark Hotels and Resorts Limited . — —
. Hanaro Hospitality Private Limited
High Calibre Cnc Centre Private Limited
Hotel Kamal Palace (North India Hotel And Industries Private
Limited) Rupees crores Other
Number of
Outstanding
Shares held
Balances - by Struck off
Liabilities
Companies Name of the Struck off Company Receivables Payables Other
Outstanding
Balances Assets The India Sugar Agencies Private Limited — — — — — TI Tsubamex Private Limited — . — — — — — Vector Projects Private Limited — — . — — — — — Versatile Options And Solutions Private Limited — . — — — * — — — Vidhan Marketing Private Limited — — — — — — — — Welcome Telecome Private Limited — — * — — * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. Note: The above information is provided on basis of reasonable diligence done to ascertain relevant companies that have been struck off on the
website of the Ministry of Company Affairs. — — — — Hudson Engineering Industries Private Limited — — — — , Jaipal Consultancy Private Limited — — — — Janardana Investments Private Limited — — — — . — — — — M N S Logistics Private Limited * — — — — Magnate Leasing & Finance Private Limited — — — — Maptronicz Technologies Private Limited — * — — — In terms of our report attached. Mayor Healthcare Private Limited — — * — — Midwest Mutual Fund Limited — — — — Niche Events And Promotions Private Limited . — — — — For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W- Positive Leasing & Finance Private Limited — — — — , Purushothama Investments Private Limited — — — — Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No: Rajpal Control Systems Private Limited — — — — Bengaluru, 16th May, Rapidform Technologies Private Limited * — — — — Ray Shield Technology Private Limited — . — — — . — — — — Rofin Baasel Laser India Private Limited * — — — — Safna Consultancy Private Limited — — — — Sahil Genset Sales Private Limited — * — — — Sartaj Mega Project India Private Limited — * — — — Shalaka Technologies Private Limited — . — — — Sindhudurg Investments Private Limited — — — — Skypack Courier & Cargo Private Limited — * — — — Skylite Enterprise Private Limited . — — — — Technosteel Commercial Kitchen Equipments Private Limited . — — — — Robomatrix Automation & Solutions Private Limited Other
Number of
Outstanding
Shares held
Balances - by Struck off
Liabilities
Companies . Knowledge Beans Training Management & Consulting Private
Limited . Previous year’s figures have been regrouped wherever necessary (refer note ).
Signatures to Notes to The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Financial Statements For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - ) Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 16th May, MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
 Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Holding Company”) and its
subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), its associates and its joint ventures, which comprise the consolidated
balance sheet as at March , and the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), consolidated statement of
changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including material
accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of reports of the other
auditors on separate/consolidated financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as were audited by the other auditors, the
aforesaid consolidated financial statements give the information required by the Companies Act, (“Act”) in the manner so required and give a true
and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs of the Group, its associates and
joint ventures as at March , of its consolidated profit and other comprehensive income, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash
flows for the year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section () of the Act. Our responsibilities under those
SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent
of the Group, its associates and joint ventures in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial
statements in terms of the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the relevant provisions of the Act, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with the
consideration of reports of the other auditors referred to in paragraph (a) of the “Other Matters” section below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment and based on the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate/
consolidated financial statements of components audited by them, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the
current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment assessment of intangible assets currently under development in the Automotive Cash Generating Unit (CGU)
See Note (h) to consolidated financial statements
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group has identified its Automotive business segment as a separate
cash generating unit (‘Auto CGU’). The Group holds intangible assets under
development and tests its CGU (‘Auto CGU’) for impairment atleast annually. Our audit procedures included: For the purpose of the impairment test, the Group determines
recoverable value of the Auto CGU which is the higher of Value In Use
(VIU) or Fair Value Less Cost of Disposal (FVLCS). The recoverable value is
dependent on certain assumptions and estimates of future performance
and management’s plans for continuation of the projects.
On discontinuing individual projects under development, an impairment
loss relating to the specific project is recognised in the statement of
profit and loss.
Changes in business environment, including market or economic
environment, geopolitical situations and general inflationary trends
could have a significant impact on the valuation of the Auto CGU and
management’s plan for specific projects under development. This annual
impairment test is considered to be a key audit matter considering the
significant judgements required in determining the key assumptions. •	Tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of key controls in respect of the Group’s impairment assessment
process, including the approval of forecasts and valuation models; •	Involved valuation specialists as applicable, to evaluate the appropriateness of the valuation models including assumptions
such as the discount rates used in VIU calculations; •	Tested the key VIU assumptions used in estimating future cash flows such as revenue volumes and prices, operating costs, inflation
and growth rates by comparing these inputs with externally derived
data, past performance, consistency with the respective entity’s
Board approved investment plans and knowledge of the industry; •	Evaluated past performance where relevant, and assessed historical
accuracy of the forecast produced by management; and •	Evaluated the stage of development of the intangible assets, judgments used for expected probable economic benefits and
associated expenditures, management plans for continuation of
projects and their assessment of feasibility of the projects. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Allowances for Expected Credit Losses (“ECL”) in the financial services business Other Information See Note (e)(v) to consolidated financial statements
The key audit matter
As at March , the carrying value of loan assets
measured at amortised cost, aggregated Rs , crores
(net of allowance of expected credit loss Rs , crores).
Significant judgement is used in classifying these loan assets
and applying appropriate measurement principles. ECL on such
loan assets measured at amortised cost is a critical estimate
involving greater level of management judgement. As part of
risk assessment, the component joint auditors determined that
the ECL on such loan assets has a high degree of estimation
uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes
for the consolidated financial statements. The elements of
estimating ECL which involved increased level of audit focus are
the following: The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Holding Company’s annual report, but does not include the financial statements and auditor’s report thereon. The
Holding Company’s annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report. •	Qualitative and quantitative factors used in staging the
loan assets measured at amortised cost; •	Basis used for estimating Probabilities of Default (“PD”), Loss Given Default (“LGD”) and Exposure at Default (“EAD”)
at product level with past trends; •	Judgements used in projecting economic scenarios and probability weights applied to reflect future economic
conditions; and •	Adjustments to model driven ECL results to address
emerging trends. How the matter was addressed in our audit
The audit procedures applied by the component joint auditors of the component
included:
Examined the policies approved by the respective Board of Directors of the
component that articulate the objectives of managing each portfolio and their
business models. Component joint auditors also verified the methodology
adopted for computation of ECL (“ECL Model”) that addresses policies approved
by the respective Board of Directors, procedures and controls for assessing and
measuring credit risk on all lending exposures measured at amortised cost. The audit
procedures related to the allowance for ECL included the following, among others:
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the following: •	Completeness and accuracy of the Exposure at Default (“EAD”) and the classification thereof into stages consistent with the definitions applied in
accordance with the policy approved by the respective component’s Board of
Directors including the appropriateness of the qualitative factors to be applied; •	Completeness, accuracy and appropriateness of information used in the
estimation of the PD and LGD for the different stages depending on the
nature of the portfolio; and •	Accuracy of the computation of the ECL estimate including reasonableness of the methodology used to determine macro-economic adjustment basis
forward looking information. Test of details on a sample in respect of the following:
•	Accuracy and completeness of the input data such as period of default and
other related information used in estimating the PD; In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements
or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Holding Company’s annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate
the matter to those charged with governance and take necessary actions, as applicable under the relevant laws and regulations.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial Statements
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated financial
statements in term of the requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs, consolidated profit/ loss and other
comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group including its associates and joint ventures
in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section of the Act. The respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures are
responsible for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company
and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and
estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for
the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the Management and Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid. data as used by the Group. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its
associates and joint ventures are responsible for assessing the ability of each company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Company
or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. data based on which the ECL estimates have been computed. The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and the respective Board of Directors of its associates and joint ventures are
responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of each company. •	The mathematical accuracy of the ECL computation by using the same input •	Completeness and accuracy of the staging of the loans and the underlying
•	Assessed whether the disclosures on key judgements, assumptions and
quantitative data with respect to impairment loss allowance in consolidated
financial statements are appropriate and sufficient. Information Technology and General Controls in financial services business:
The key audit matter
The financial services business of Group is dependent on its
Information Technology (“IT”) systems due to the significant
number of transactions that are processed daily across such
multiple and discrete IT systems. Also, IT application controls are
critical to ensure that changes to applications and underlying
data are made in an appropriate manner and under controlled
environments. Appropriate controls contribute to mitigating
the risk of potential fraud or errors as a result of changes to
applications and data. On account of the pervasive use of its
IT systems, the testing of the general computer controls of the
IT systems used in financial reporting was considered to be a
Key Audit Matter. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon. How the matter was addressed in our audit
The audit procedures applied by the joint auditors of the component included:
With the assistance of IT specialists, the joint auditors of the subsidiary obtained
an understanding of the Component’s IT applications, databases and operating
systems relevant to financial reporting and the control environment. For these
elements of the IT infrastructure the areas of focus included access security
(including controls over privileged access), program change controls, database
management and network operations. In particular:
•
Joint auditors of component tested the design, implementation, and
operating effectiveness of the financial services business’s general IT
controls over the IT systems relevant to financial reporting. This included
evaluation of controls over segregation of duties and access rights being
provisioned / modified based on duly approved requests, access for exit
cases being revoked in a timely manner and access of all users being
recertified during the period of audit. •	
Joint Auditors of the component also tested key automated business cycle controls and logic for the reports generated through the IT infrastructure
that were relevant for financial reporting or were used in the exercise of
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Tests
included testing of the compensating controls or alternate procedures to
assess whether there were any unaddressed IT risks that would materiality
impact the Financial Statements. Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: •	Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. •	Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section ()(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the company has adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. •	Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Management
and Board of Directors. •	Conclude on the appropriateness of the Management and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparation of consolidated financial statements and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the appropriateness of this assumption. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group
and its associates and joint ventures to cease to continue as a going concern. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S •	Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated
financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. •	Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial statements of such entities or business activities within the Group and its associates b.	In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements have been
kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of the other auditors except for the matters stated in the
paragraph (B)(f) below on reporting under Rule (g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, . and joint ventures to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of
the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the
other entities included in the consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for
the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Our responsibilities in
this regard are further described in paragraph (a) of the section titled “Other Matters” in this audit report. c.	The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), the consolidated
statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant
books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements. We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding Company and such other entities included in the consolidated financial statements of
which we are the independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any
significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. e.	On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on April taken on record by the
Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint
ventures incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies, its associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India
is disqualified as on March from being appointed as a director in terms of Section () of the Act. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and
to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related
safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law
or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
a.	We did not audit the financial statements of subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments)
of Rs , crores as at March , total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs , crores and net cash inflows (before
consolidation adjustments) amounting to Rs crores for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit after tax (and other comprehensive income) (before consolidation
adjustments) of Rs crores for the year ended March , in respect of associates and joint ventures, whose financial statements
have not been audited by us. These financial statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the
Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of
these subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section () of Section of the Act, in so far as it relates to the
aforesaid subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is based solely on the reports of the other auditors. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect
of the above matter with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.
b.	The financial statements of subsidiaries, whose financial statements reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs , crores as
at March , total revenues (before consolidation adjustments) of Rs , crores and net cash outflows (before consolidation adjustments)
amounting to Rs crores for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, have not been audited either by us
or by other auditors. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of net profit after tax (and other comprehensive income)
(before consolidation adjustments) of Rs crores for the year ended March , as considered in the consolidated financial statements, in
respect of associates and joint ventures, whose financial statements have not been audited by us or by other auditors. These unaudited financial
statements have been furnished to us by the Management and our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it relates to the
amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and our report in terms of sub-section () of
Section of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, is based solely on such unaudited financial
statements. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, these financial statements are not
material to the Group. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements below, is not modified in respect
of this matter with respect to the financial statements certified by the Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
.	As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of Section () of
the Act, we give in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs and of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2A. As required by Section () of the Act, based on our audit and on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate/consolidated
financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures as were audited by other auditors, as noted in the “Other Matters” paragraph,
we report, to the extent applicable, that:
a.	We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the
purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements. d. In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section of the Act. f.	The modification relating to the maintenance of accounts and other matters connected therewith are as stated in the paragraph (A)(b)
above on reporting under Section ()(b) and paragraph (B)(f) below on reporting under Rule (g) of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
Rules, .
g.	With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company and its subsidiary
companies, associate companies and joint ventures and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure B”.
B.	With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules,
, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us and based on the consideration of the reports
of the other auditors on separate/ consolidated financial statements of the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, as noted in the “Other Matters”
paragraph:
a.	The consolidated financial statements disclose the impact of pending litigations as at March on the consolidated financial position of
the Group, its associates and joint ventures. Refer Note to the consolidated financial statements.
b.	Provision has been made in the consolidated financial statements, as required under the applicable law or Ind AS, for material foreseeable
losses, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts. Refer Note to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such items
as it relates to the Group, its associates and joint ventures.
c.	There has been no delay in transferring amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Holding Company or its subsidiary
companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India during the year ended March .
d. (i) The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have
been audited have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief,
no funds have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or kind of funds)
by the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies to or in any other persons or entities, including foreign entities (“Intermediaries”),
with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall directly or indirectly lend or invest in other
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies (“Ultimate
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (ii)	The respective management of the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have
been audited have represented to us and the other auditor of such subsidiary company that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no
funds have been received by the Holding Company or such subsidiary companies from any persons or entities, including foreign entities
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Holding Company or such subsidiary
companies shall directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the
Funding Parties (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like from or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries. (iii)	Based on the audit procedures performed that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing has come
to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule (e), as provided under (i) and
(ii) above, contain any material misstatement. e.	The dividend declared or paid during the year by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures
incorporated in India is in compliance with Section of the Act.
f.	Based on our examination which included test checks, and that performed by the respective auditors, of the subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India whose financial statements have been audited under the Act, except for
the instances mentioned below, the Holding Company, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures incorporated in India have used accounting
softwares for maintaining its books of account, which have a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility and the same has operated
throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the respective softwares. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S i.	In case of the Holding Company and subsidiaries and joint ventures, the feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility was not
enabled at the database level to log any direct data changes for the accounting software used for maintaining the books of account; ii.	In case of subsidiary, the component has used an accounting software for maintaining its books of account which has a feature of
recording audit trail (edit log) facility. The component upgraded to such version from November , . The feature of recording of audit
trail (edit log) facility has operated from November to March for all relevant transactions recorded in the software during
that period. Accordingly, the component auditor is unable to comment whether the audit trail feature was active from April to October in the old software used by the subsidiary; iii.	In case of subsidiary and joint ventures, the components have used a software in which the feature of recording of audit trail (edit log)
for direct data changes at database level in the software is being maintained at any given point in time only for a period of six months,
hence the component auditor is unable to comment whether the audit trail feature was enabled and operating for the period the audit
trail log is not available; iv.	In case of associates, the components have used an accounting software operated by third party service provider, for maintaining its
books of account, and in the absence of a Service Organization Controls report, the component auditor is unable to comment on whether
audit trail feature of the said software was enabled and operated throughout the year for all relevant transactions recorded in the
software or whether there were any instances of the audit trail feature being tampered with; C. Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March (Referred to in paragraph under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
(xxi)	In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, following companies incorporated in India and included in the consolidated
financial statements, have adverse remarks given by its respective auditors in their reports under the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, (CARO):
Sr.
No. Name of the entities CIN Holding
Clause number of the CARO report
Company/
which is adverse
Subsidiary/
Joint Venture/
Associate Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited L65921MH1991PLC059642 Subsidiary (xi)(a) Mahindra Susten Private Limited U74990MH2010PTC207854 Joint Venture (xi)(a) Kota Farm Services Limited U02005MH2001PLC131699 Subsidiary (xix) v.	In case of joint venture, the audit trail feature for accounting software used for maintenance of accounting records from April to April had a feature of recording audit logs, but in absence of evidence, the component auditor is unable to comment upon
whether the audit trail (edit log) facility remained operational for the said period; Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private Limited U74999MH2018PTC317132 Joint Venture (xvii) and (xix) Officemartindia.com Limited U74999MH2000PLC126610 Subsidiary (xvii) and (xix) vi.	In case of joint venture, the audit trail feature was not enabled up to November , at the database level for accounting software
to log any direct data changes, used for maintenance of sales and related records by the component; and Mahindra Construction Company Limited U45200MH1992PLC068846 Subsidiary (xix) Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited U64200MH1994PLC083996 Subsidiary (xi)(a) vii.	In case of associate, the feature of audit trail (edit log) was not enabled in full at the application layer of the accounting software in
respect of the revenue system, payroll system and consolidation system and in respect of certain fields and tables of the accounting
software used for maintaining the general ledger. Further, the feature of audit trail (edit log) was not enabled at the database layer to log
any direct data changes in the accounting software used for maintaining books of accounts relating to the general ledger system, revenue
system, payroll system and consolidation system. V-Link Freight Services Private Limited U62100MH2022PTC390187 Subsidiary (xvii) ZipZap Logistics Private Limited U60221TG2018PTC125881 Subsidiary (xvii) MLL Express Services Private Limited U63040MH2006PTC165956 Subsidiary (xvii) Further, for the periods where audit trail (edit log) facility was enabled and operated for the respective accounting softwares, we did not come
across any instance of the audit trail feature being tampered with.
With respect to the matter to be included in the Auditor’s Report under Section () of the Act: In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us and based on the reports of the statutory auditors of such subsidiary
companies, associate companies and joint ventures incorporated in India which were not audited by us, the remuneration paid during the current year
by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures to its directors is in accordance with the provisions
of Section of the Act, where applicable. The remuneration paid to any director by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures is not in excess of the limit laid down under Section of the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has not prescribed
other details under Section () of the Act which are required to be commented upon by us. Place : Bengaluru
Date : May In addition to the above, there are certain companies in the Group whose auditors have reported cash losses in the financial year under clause (xvii)
of the CARO report. Based on information and explanations provided to us, in our opinion, these observations are not considered adverse in nature and
hence not reported under this clause.
The above does not include comments, if any, in respect of the following entities as the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by its auditor
till the date of principal auditor’s report.
Name of the entities CIN Subsidiary/ Joint Venture/ Associate Aquasail Distribution Company Private Limited U93090MH2006PTC164021 Joint Venture Brainbees Solutions Limited U51100PN2010PLC136340 Associate New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited U85120MH2002PLC338742 Joint Venture ReNew Sunlight Energy Private Limited U40300DL2020PTC374527 Associate For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W- For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W- Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: ICAI UDIN: 24113156BKGFOO4838 Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: ICAI UDIN: 24113156BKGFOO4838 Place : Bengaluru
Date : May MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the consolidated financial statements
of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited for the year ended March  Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of
Sub‑section of Section of the Act
(Referred to in paragraph (A)(g) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Opinion
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (hereinafter referred to as “the Holding Company”) as
of and for the year ended March , we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding Company and
such companies incorporated in India under the Act which are its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, as of that date.
In our opinion and based on the consideration of reports of the other auditors on internal financial controls with reference to financial statements of
subsidiary companies, associate companies and joint ventures, as were audited by the other auditors, the Holding Company and such companies incorporated
in India which are its subsidiary companies, its associate companies and joint ventures, have, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements and such internal financial controls were operating effectively as at March , based on the internal financial controls
with reference to financial statements criteria established by such companies considering the essential components of such internal controls stated in the
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the “Guidance Note”).
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Company’s Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on
the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements criteria established by the respective company considering the essential components
of internal control stated in the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial
controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to the respective company’s
policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and
the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our
audit in accordance with the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, prescribed under Section () of the Act, to the extent applicable to an
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to financial
statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements included obtaining an
understanding of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s
judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence obtained by the other auditors of the relevant subsidiary companies, associate
companies and joint ventures in terms of their reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements include those policies and procedures that () pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; () provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and
directors of the company; and () provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls with Reference to Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the possibility of collusion or improper
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
internal financial controls with reference to financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial controls with reference
to financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate. Other Matters
Our aforesaid report under Section ()(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements insofar as it relates to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the
corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated in India.
The internal financial controls with reference to financial statements insofar as it relates to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, which are
companies incorporated in India and included in these consolidated financial statements, have not been audited either by us or by other auditors. In our
opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, such unaudited subsidiary company, associate companies and
joint ventures are not material to the Holding Company.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
For B S R & Co. LLP
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W- Place : Bengaluru
Date : May Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Partner
Membership No.: ICAI UDIN: 24113156BKGFOO4838 MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Consolidated Balance Sheet | as at 31st March, Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss | for the year ended 31st March, Rupees crores I. ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment........................................................................................................................................................................................................
Capital work-in-progress.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Goodwill............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other intangible assets.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Intangible assets under development........................................................................................................................................................................................
Investments accounted using equity method.......................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax assets (net)....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Income tax assets (net)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current assets....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financial assets
(i)
Investments....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Trade receivables.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Cash and cash equivalents..................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents...................................................................................................................................
(v)
Loans...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(vi) Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current assets..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Assets held for sale................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. II. TOTAL ASSETS.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity share capital.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other equity..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Equity attributable to owners of the company...................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Compulsorily convertible preference shares..........................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Lease liabilities ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iv) Trade payables ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises............................................................
(v)
Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax liabilities (net)...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other non-current liabilities..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities
(i)
Borrowings......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii)
Lease liabilities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(iii) Trade payables ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(a)
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises.....................................................................................
(b)
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises...................................
(iv) Other financial liabilities.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other current liabilities.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Provisions........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Current tax liabilities (net).................................................................................................................................................................................................................
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES............................................................................................................................................................................................... Note No. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,,. ,.
.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,,. ,. ,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,. ,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,. .
,.
,.
,.
,. .
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,. ,.
.
,. —
,.
,.
,.
,.
,. .
.
,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
. ,.
. .
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,. .
,.
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,. Bengaluru, May, th Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Note No.
INCOME
Revenue from operations...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Income from investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures ...................................................................................................
Income from operations ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other income..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Income..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EXPENSES
Cost of materials consumed ..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Purchases of stock-in-trade ...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock-in-trade and work-in-progress.........................................................................................................
Employee benefits expense..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Finance costs ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense ...................................................................................................................................................................
Loss from investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures ..........................................................................................................
Other expenses .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Expenses ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit Before Exceptional Items, share of profit of associates and joint ventures and tax .............................................................
Exceptional items (net)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Share of profit of associates and joint ventures, (net).................................................................................................................................................................
Profit Before Tax ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Tax Expense
Current tax .........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Deferred tax ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit for the year .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss)
A.
(i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (a) Remeasurements of the defined benefit plans ....................................................................................................................................... (b) Equity instruments through other comprehensive income ............................................................................................................ (c) Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investees.....................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss......................................................................................
B.
(i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss (a) Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations .................................................. (b) Debt instruments through other comprehensive income ................................................................................................................ (c)	Effective portion of gains/(losses) on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge (net).... (d)	Share of other comprehensive income/(loss) of equity accounted investees ..................................................................
(ii) Income tax relating to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss ..............................................................................................
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss).....................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Comprehensive Income for the year ...................................................................................................................................................................................
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total Comprehensive Income for the year attributable to:
Owners of the company ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-controlling interests ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Earnings per equity share
(Face value Rs. /- per share) (Rupees)
Basic ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Diluted ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,,.
.
,,.
,.
,,. ,,.
.
,,.
,.
,,. ,.
,.
(,.)
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,.
,.
—
,.
,. ,.
,.
(,.)
,.
,.
,.
.
,.
,,.
,.
,.
,.
,. (,.)
(.)
,. (,.)
.
,. .
(.)
(.)
(.) (.)
(.)
.
. (.)
.
.
.
.
.
,. (.)
(.)
(.)
.
.
(.)
,. ,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,. .
.
. (.)
(.)
(.) ,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,. .
. .
. The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Anand G. Mahindra Rupees crores In terms of our report attached. Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No. : 101248W/W-
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Partner
Membership No. : In terms of our report attached.
Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, May, th For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No. : 101248W/W-
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Partner
Membership No. : Bengaluru, May, th Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 16th May, —
,. —
. — —
— (.) — — . — — — —
— — — —
— — — —
— — — ,. Securities
premium — — . Capital
reserve on
consolidation —
. . (.) — (.) — — — — — — — — . Shares
options
outstanding
account —
,. — . — — — — . — — — — — ,. Other
reserves Reserves and surplus .
—
.
.
.
. .
,. — — — — — — (.) — (,.) ,. . ,. ,. Retained
earnings —
(.) — — — — — — — — — . . — (.) Debt
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income —
(.) — — — — — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Equity
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income —
(.) — — — — — — — — — . . — (.) Effective
portion of Cash
Flow Hedges
(Refer Note (a) (ii)) Items of other comprehensive income Attributable to owners of the company .
—
.
.
—
. Rupees crores . — (.) — — — — (.) (,.) ,. . ,. —
.
(.) ,. — — — — — — — (.) — . . — (.) ,. . —
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
(.)
—
—
—
—
—
—
. Other comprehensive income /(loss).............
Total comprehensive income /(loss) for
the year............................................................................
Dividend paid on equity shares.........................
Other comprehensive income reclassified
to profit or loss.............................................................
Other comprehensive income /(loss)
reclassified to Retained earnings.....................
Transfers from Retained earnings........................
On business combinations during the year.....
On disposal of subsidiaries during the year....
Exercise of employee stock options...................
Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
trust to employees.......................................................
On account of employee stock options
lapsed...................................................................................
Share-based payment to employees..................
Hyperinflation adjustment ......................................
Transactions with non-controlling interest
and changes in group's interest........................
As at March, .......................................
st .
Profit /(loss) for the year...................................... Capital
reserve on
consolidation As at 1st April, .............................................. Particulars (B) Other Equity (Continued) ,. . — — — (.) . — — — — — — — — — ,. Securities
premium . . — . (.) — (.) — — — — — — — — — . Shares
options
outstanding
account ,. — — — . — — (.) — . — — — — — — ,. Other
reserves Reserves and surplus ,. (.) . — — — — — — (.) . — (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Retained
earnings (.) — — — — — — — — — — — — (.) (.) — (.) Debt
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income (.) — — — — — — — — — (.) — — (.) (.) — (.) Equity
instrument
through other
comprehensive
income (.) — — — — — — — — — — (.) — (.) (.) — (.) Effective
portion of Cash
Flow Hedges
(Refer Note (a) (ii)) Items of other comprehensive income Attributable to owners of the company Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, (Continued) (.) — — — — — — — — — — (.) — . . — (.) Foreign
currency
translation
reserve ,. (.) . . — (.) . (.) — — — (.) (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Total other
equity — (.) — (.) . — (.) (,.) ,. . ,. ,. (.)
.
,. ,. — — — — (.) . — — (.) ,. . ,. ,. Total Rupees crores
NonTotal other controlling
interests
equity
Foreign
currency
translation
reserve ,. . — — — — — (.) . — — — (.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Noncontrolling
interests ,. (.) . . — (.) . (.) . — — (.) (,.) ,. (.) ,. ,. Total Rupees crores Remeasurement income/(loss) (net) on defined benefit plans, net of deferred tax, aggregating to income of Rs. . crores ( : loss of Rs. . crores) has been recognised during the year as part of Retained earnings. Share-based payment to employees..........
Transactions with non-controlling interest
and changes in group's interest...................
As at 31st March, ....................................... Exercise of employee stock options..............
Allotment of bonus shares by M&M ESOP
Trust to employees..........................................
On account of employee stock options
lapsed ................................................................... On disposal of subsidiaries during the year. Transfers from Retained earnings...............
On business combinations during the
year....................................................................... Dividend paid on equity shares....................
Other comprehensive income reclassified
to profit or loss................................................. Other comprehensive income /(loss)...........
Total comprehensive income /(loss) for
the year.............................................................. Profit for the year............................................ As at 1st April, ...................................... Particulars (B) Other Equity Issued, subscribed and paid up:
Balance as at the beginning of the year..............................................................................
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period error.......................................
Restated balance................................................................................................................................
Add: Allotment of shares by M&M ESOP Trust to Employees...............................
Add: Shares issued under scheme of arrangement.......................................................
Balance as at the end of the year......................................................................................... Particulars (A) Equity Share Capital Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity | for the year ended 31st March, CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
Membership No. : Use of estimates and judgments Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at each balance sheet date. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised and future periods affected. The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements
In terms of our report attached. (e) Chairman (DIN - ) (i)	Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets - refer note (f) and note (g). Managing Director and CEO (DIN - ) (ii)	Provision for product warranties - refer note (q) and note . Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - ) (iii)	Fair value of financial assets and liabilities and investments - refer note (d). (iv)	Impairment of tangible and intangible assets including goodwill and investments - refer note (h) and note . Group Chief Financial Officer (v)	Impairment of financial services receivable - refer note (b)(iii). Company Secretary (ACS No. ) (vi)	Classification of investment as subsidiary, associate or joint venture - refer note (c). Mumbai, May, (vii) Recoverability of deferred tax asset on unabsorbed losses - refer note (p) and note . th . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Material Accounting Policies (Continued)
(f) . Property, plant and equipment Cost includes financing cost relating to borrowed funds attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying tangible assets upto the date
the assets are ready for use. Depreciation is provided on straight-line basis for property, plant and equipment so as to expense the depreciable amount, i.e. the cost less
estimated residual value, over its estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually and the effect of any
changes in estimate is accounted for on a prospective basis. The management’s estimate of useful lives are in accordance with Schedule II to the Companies Act, , other than the following asset classes,
based on the Group’s expected usage pattern supported by technical assessment:
Asset Class Useful lives (i) Plant and equipment - years (ii) Buildings, including roads - years (iii) Vehicles - years Goodwill Goodwill is initially recognised as the excess of consideration paid/payable over acquirer’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable net assets of
the acquired business. Subsequent to initial measurement, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment, if any. Goodwill is allocated
to the cash-generating unit which is expected to benefit from the business combination. Intangile assets
Intangible assets under development The Group expenses costs incurred during research phase to profit or loss in the year in which they are incurred. Development phase expenses
are initially recognised as intangible assets under development until the development phase is complete, upon which the amount is capitalised as
intangible assets. Other intangible assets Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost except those acquired in a business combination. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination
are recognised separately from goodwill and are initially recognised at their fair value on the acquisition date which is regarded as their cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortised on a straight line basis so as to reflect the pattern in
which the asset’s economic benefits are consumed and are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses,
if any. The other intangible assets are amortised over the estimated period of benefit as below: (j) Foreign exchange transactions and translation The functional currency of the Company and its Indian subsidiaries is Indian Rupees whereas the functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the respective entity operates. Transactions in foreign currencies are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting
period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the
fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. Exchange
differences on monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions
entered into in order to hedge certain foreign currency risks (refer policy on Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting). On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of control over
a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement or an associate that includes a foreign
operation of which the retained interest becomes a financial asset), the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation
attributable to the owners of the Company are reclassified to profit or loss. In addition, in relation to a partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation that does not result in the Group losing control over
the subsidiary, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not recognised in
profit or loss. For all other partial disposal (i.e. partial disposals of associates or joint arrangements that do not result in the Group losing significant
influence or joint control), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss.
(k) Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue
of financial assets or financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss) are added
to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly
attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or
loss. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price.
Classification and subsequent measurement Asset Class Useful lives Financial assets i) Development expenditure - years ii) Software expenditure - years All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. All recognised financial assets are
subsequently measured at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their respective classification. iii) Brand license fee and trademarks - years iv) Technical knowhow - years v)	Others (excluding Transferable Development Rights) - years The amortisation period for intangible assets are reviewed annually and changes in expected useful lives are treated as changes in estimates.
(h) Inventories Inventories are carried at cost or net realisable value whichever is lower. Cost is determined on the basis of the weighted average method and
comprises of all cost of purchase, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. For the purposes of presenting these consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are translated
into Indian Rupees using exchange rates prevailing at the end of each reporting period. Income and expense items are translated at the average
exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (and attributed
to non-controlling interests as appropriate). (g) Goodwill and Intangible Assets Material Accounting Policies (Continued)
(i) Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment, if any. Impairment of Assets At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets and investments in associates
and joint ventures to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists,
the recoverable amount, which is the higher of the value in use or fair value less cost to sell, of the asset or cash-generating unit, as the case may
be, is estimated and impairment loss (if any) is recognised and the carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value. When it is not possible to estimate the
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Except for goodwill, when an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or a cash-generating unit is increased to
the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) earlier. Goodwill, intangible assets and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an
indication that the asset may be impaired. On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at: — Amortised cost - debt instrument; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - debt instrument; or — Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) - equity instrument; or — Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL) The classification of debt instrument as amortised cost or FVTOCI is based on the business model and cash flow characteristics of such instrument. Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition, except if the Group changes its business model for managing
financial assets. A financial asset not classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI is measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets unless
designated as effective hedge instruments which are accounted as per hedge accounting requirements discussed below. For equity investments other than investments in associates and joint ventures, the Group makes an election on an instrument-by-instrument basis
to designate equity investments as measured at FVTOCI. These elected investments are measured at fair value with gains and losses arising from
changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the reserves. The cumulative gain or loss is not reclassified
to profit or loss on disposal of the investments. These equity investments are not held for trading. Dividend income received on such equity
investments are recognised in profit or loss. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Material Accounting Policies (Continued) Equity investments that are not designated to be measured at FVTOCI are designated to be measured at FVTPL and subsequent changes in fair
value are recognised in profit or loss. Where the Group is a holder of a financial instrument that is a hybrid instrument or a compound instrument, such financial instrument is assessed
in its entirety and the financial asset as a whole is measured at FVTPL if the contractual cash flow characteristics test is not met.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Debt and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the
contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument. Equity instruments issued by the Group is recognised at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable transaction costs. Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as held-fortrading or it is a derivative (that does not meet hedge accounting requirements) or it is designated as such on initial recognition. Compound instruments An issued financial instrument that comprises of both the liability and equity components are accounted as compound financial instruments i.e.
split into debt and equity components. The transaction costs related to compound instruments are allocated to the liability and equity components
in the proportion to the allocation of gross proceeds. Transaction costs related to equity component is recognised directly in equity and the cost
related to liability component is included in the carrying amount of the liability component and amortised using effective interest method.
Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the rights
to receive the contractual cash flows from financial asset in a manner that substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset are
transferred to another party. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to
control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for the amount it may have to pay. If the Group enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets recognised on its balance sheet, but retains either all or substantially all of
the risks and rewards of the transferred assets, the transferred assets are not derecognised and the proceeds received are recognised as a
collateralised borrowing.
Offsetting Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the balance sheet when, and only when, the Group currently has
a legally enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability
simultaneously.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign exchange forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to manage its exposure
to foreign exchange and interest rate risks. Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts that are not financial assets within the scope of
Ind AS are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and economic characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts
and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the
end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective
as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedging relationship and the
nature of the hedged item. The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges or cash
flow hedges. Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with
its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an
ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
Impairment of financial assets The Group applies the expected credit loss (ECL) model for recognising impairment loss on financial assets. With respect to trade receivables, the Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses. For financial services business, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
If, on the other hand, the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the
loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to month ECL. The assessment of whether lifetime ECL should be recognised
is based on significant increases in the likelihood or risk of a default occurring since initial recognition. month ECL represents the portion of
lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within months after the reporting date. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
This is generally the case when the Group determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash
flows to repay the amounts subject to the write - off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities
under the Group’s recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss. . Material Accounting Policies (Continued)
(l) Revenue Recognition
Sale of Goods or Services Revenue from sale of goods are recognised upon satisfaction of performance obligation which is at a point in time, generally on delivery of the
goods, when control of the goods is transferred to dealers / customers. Revenue from services are recognised upon satisfaction of performance
obligation towards rendering of such services. The Group recognises revenue from sale of goods or services at the amount of transaction price (excluding variable consideration that is constrained),
that is allocated to the performance obligation satisfied. Transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Group expects it to be
entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. An amount of consideration can vary because of discounts, rebates, incentives etc. which are explicitly stated in the contract or are as per
customary business practices. The consideration can also vary where the entitlement is contingent on occurrence or non-occurrence of a future
event. The Group includes variable consideration as part of transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal
in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently
resolved. Variable consideration is estimated using the expected value method or the most likely amount depending on which method the Group
expects to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled and is applied consistently throughout the contract. Payment terms agreed with a customer are as per business practice and the financing component, if significant, is separated from the transaction
price and accounted as interest income/expense, as applicable. Dividend and interest income Dividend from investments are recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income from a financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income
can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Income from financial services business (i) Recognition of interest income on loans Interest income is recognised in Consolidated Statement of profit and loss using the effective interest method for all financial instruments
measured at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVTOCI and debt instruments designated at FVTPL. If expectations regarding the cash flows on the financial asset are revised for reasons other than credit risk, the adjustment is recorded as
a positive or negative adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet with an increase or reduction in interest income.
The adjustment is subsequently amortised through interest income in the Consolidated Statement of profit and loss. When a financial asset becomes credit-impaired, the Group calculates interest income by applying the effective interest rate to the net
amortised cost of the financial asset. If the financial asset cures and is no longer credit-impaired, the Group reverts to calculating interest
income on a gross basis. Additional interest levied on customers for delay in repayments/ non payment of contractual cashflows is recognised on realisation. Interest
on trade advances, are recognized when they become measurable and when it is not unreasonable to expect their ultimate collection. Income from bill discounting is recognised over the tenure of the instrument so as to provide a constant periodic rate of return. (ii) Recognition of interest income on securitised loans The Group securitises certain pools of loan receivables in accordance with applicable RBI guidelines, wherein by virtue of existence of credit
enhancement, the Group is exposed to credit risk, being the expected losses that will be incurred on the transferred loan receivables to the
extent of the credit enhancement provided. In view of the above, the Group has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset and thereby does not
meet the de-recognition criteria as set out in Ind AS . Consideration received in this transaction is presented as “Associated liability related
to Securitisation transactions” and the loan receivables securitised are continued to be reflected as loan assets. These loan assets are carried
at amortised cost and the interest income is recognised by applying the EIR to the gross carrying amount of financial assets other than creditimpaired assets. (iii) Subvention income Subvention income received from manufacturer / dealers at the inception of the loan contracts which is directly attributable to individual
loan contracts in respect of vehicles financed is recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method over the tenor of such loan
contracts measured at amortised cost. In case of subvention income which is subject to confirmation from manufacturer and received later
than inception date is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss using straight line method over the tenor of such loan contracts.
Fees, charges and commission income Service and administration charges income towards rendering of additional services to its loan customers is recognised at point in time upon
satisfactory completion of service delivery. Fees and commission that are not directly linked to the sourcing of financial assets are recognised at point in time on an accrual basis when the
right to receive the same is established. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Material Accounting Policies (Continued) . Material Accounting Policies (Continued) Distribution income is earned by distribution of services and products of other entities under distribution arrangements. The income so earned is
recognised on successful distribution on behalf of other entities subject to there being no significant uncertainty of its recovery from the other
entities. Incremental costs of acquisition of the members are deferred over the period of effective membership in line with revenue deferral. Incremental
costs are those that would not have been incurred if the contract was not obtained. Such cost which will be amortised in the future period are
disclosed under deferred acquisition cost. Foreclosure charges are collected from loan customers for early payment/closure of loan and are recognised on realisation. Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. Revenue with
respect to instalments / contracts where there is an uncertainty about collectability, is deferred (even though the membership is not cancelled).
The estimation of such revenues where there is uncertainty in collection has been made by the Group based on past trends of year-wise cancellation
of memberships and considering factors impacting future collections. Collection fee related to transfered assets under securitisation transactions is recognised on remittance of collection proceeds to Special Purpose
Vehicle (SPV) created under securitization transaction.
Long term construction contracts and property development activity Some of the Group companies are in the business to develop and sell residential and commercial properties. Revenue from such contracts is
recognised when control over the property has been transferred to the customer. An enforceable right to payment does not arise until the
development of the property is completed. Therefore, revenue is recognised at a point in time as per IND AS when –	The seller has transferred to the buyer all significant risks and rewards of ownership and the seller retains no effective control of the real
estate unit to a degree usually associated with ownership; –	The seller has effectively handed over possession of the real estate unit to the buyer forming part of the transaction; –	No significant uncertainty exists regarding the amount of consideration that will be derived from real estate unit sales; and –	It is not unreasonable to expect ultimate collection of revenue from buyers. The revenue is measured at the transaction price agreed under
the contract. Some of the Group companies invoices the customers for construction contracts based on achieving performance-related milestones. For certain contracts involving the sale of property under development, deferred payment schemes are offered to the customers. The transaction
price is adjusted for the effects of the significant financing component. Costs to obtain contracts (“Contract costs”) relate to fees paid for obtaining property sales contracts. Such costs are recognised as assets when
incurred and amortised upon recognition of revenue from the related property sale contract. Contract assets is the Group’s right to consideration in exchange for goods or services that the Group has transferred to a customer when that
right is conditioned on something other than the passage of time. Some of the Group companies recognise revenue at a point in time in each reporting period considering the estimates like reasonableness of
collections from customers, disputes with the customer which may result in the cancellation of the contract, which are reassessed periodically by
the management. The effect of these changes to estimates is recognised in the period when changes are determined.
Income from Sale of land and other rights Revenue from sale of land and other rights is generally a single performance obligation and the Group has determined that this is satisfied at the
point in time when control transfers as per the terms of the contract entered into with the buyers, which generally are with the firmity of the sale
contracts / agreements.
Land Lease Premium Land lease premium is recognised as income upon creation of leasehold rights in favour of the lessee or upon an agreement to create leasehold
rights with handing over of possession. Property lease rentals, income from operation & maintenance charges and water charges are recognised on
an accrual basis as per terms of the agreement with the lessees.
Vacation ownership The Group’s business is to sell vacation ownership and provide holiday facilities to members for a specified period each year, over a number of years,
for which membership fee is collected either in full upfront, or on a deferred payment basis. Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured at the amount of transaction price allocated to that performance obligation. Revenue from sale of vacation ownership weeks is recognized when related right to use the specific property over the specific weeks is transferred
to the buyer for a consideration, which coincides with transfer of significant risks, rewards and control of ownership. Income from sale of vacation ownership weeks in villas under construction is deferred until the point in time when construction activities are
deemed to be completed, occupancy of the development is permissible, customer has executed a binding sales contract, collectability is reasonably
assured, the purchaser’s period to cancel for a refund has expired and the customer has the right to use. Project revenue and contract costs
associated with the contract are recognised on completion of the performance obligations as mentioned above.
Revenue from Membership fees The Group recognises the membership fees over the tenure of membership as the performance obligation is fulfilled over the tenure of membership
( years / years / years or any other tenure applicable to the respective member). The group recognises revenue on a straight line basis
over the tenure of membership after considering the expected customer unexercised rights from date of admission of each member. The revenue
which will be recognised in future periods are disclosed under other liabilities – contract liability. Revenue from consumer offers and other benefits
provided on membership are recognised as and when such benefits are provided to members at its respective fair value. Discounts and other
incentives provided to the customers are reduced from the overall contract value. Revenue from Annual subscription fees Annual subscription fee dues from members are recognised as income on accrual basis and fees pertaining to the period beyond the year end is
disclosed under Contract Liabilities and payment is due as per due date mentioned in invoice. Interest income on deferred payment plans Interest revenue is recognised only to the extent that a contract asset (or receivable) or a contract liability is recognised in accounting for a
contract with the customer. Resort Income Income from resorts include income from room rentals, food and beverages, etc. and is recognized when services are rendered. Rental income Rental income from retail premises in case of HCR Oy are recognized on a straight line basis over the rental period.
(m) Government Grants The Group, directly or indirectly through a consortium of Mahindra Group companies, is entitled to various incentives from government authorities.
Government grants are recognised when there is a reasonable assurance that the same will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with. Government grants that are revenue in nature, are recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises
as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.
(n) Employee Benefits
Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund The Group’s contribution paid / payable during the year to Superannuation Fund, ESIC and Labour Welfare Fund are recognised in profit or loss. Provident Fund Contributions to Provident Fund are made to Trusts administered by the Group / Regional Provident Fund Commissioners and are charged to profit
or loss as incurred. The Group is liable for the contribution and any shortfall in interest between the amount of income earned by the Trust and
the interest payable to members at the rate declared by the Government of India in respect of the Trust administered by the Group companies. For
such Trust, the shortfall and remeasurement thereof, if any, based on actuarial valuation is recognised through Other Comprehensive Income (OCI).
Gratuity, long term compensated absences, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes The liability towards gratuity, long term compensated absences, post retirement medical benefit and post retirement housing allowance schemes
are determined by independent actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. Remeasurement of defined benefit plans, comprising of actuarial gains or losses, return on plan assets excluding interest income are recognised
immediately in balance sheet with corresponding debit or credit to other comprehensive income. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or
loss in subsequent period. Remeasurement gains or losses on long term compensated absences that are classified as other long term benefits are recognised in profit or loss. Share based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value
determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the
Group’s estimate of the number of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. Share appreciation rights which are cash settled share-based payments are recognised as employee benefit expense over the relevant service
period. The liabilities are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
(o) Borrowing Costs Borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial
period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready
for their intended use or sale except for the period the construction activities are temporarily suspended. All other borrowing costs are recognised
in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
(p) Income taxes Current tax The Company’s current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The
current income tax expense for subsidiaries has been computed based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary in the respective jurisdiction
in which it operates. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Material Accounting Policies (Continued) Current tax assets and current tax liabilities are offset, if entity has a legally enforceable right to set off recognised amounts and intends to settle
on net basis or to realise the current tax asset and settle the current tax liabilities simultaneously. Deferred tax Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset
realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement
of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of
the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax
liabilities, and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Deferred tax assets including that on unused tax losses and unused tax credits are recognised to the extent that it is probable and there is
convincing evidence that future taxable income will be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised for temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint
arrangements to the extent that the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that they
will not reverse in the foreseeable future. . Material Accounting Policies (Continued) Non-controlling interest is initially measured at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of
measurement basis is made on an acquisition by acquisition basis. Subsequent to initial acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interest
is the amount of those interest in initial recognition plus the non-controlling interest’s share of subsequent changes in equity of subsidiaries. When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to its acquisition-date
fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit or loss. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group
reports provisional amount for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amount are adjusted during the measurement
period (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date), or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information
obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amount recognised at that date. In consolidated financial statements, acquisition of non-controlling interest is accounted as equity transaction. The carrying amount of the Group’s
interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between
the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in
equity and attributed to owners of the Company. (t) The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
(q) Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations are recognised at the time of sale of the relevant products, at the best estimate of the
expenditure required to settle the Group’s obligation. The provisions are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current
best estimate.
(r) Leases The Group as a lessee The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. The right-of-use assets are subsequently depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis.
In addition, the right-of-use asset is reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.
The lease liability is initially measured at amortised cost at the present value of the future lease payments, discounted using the interest rate
implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, using the incremental borrowing rate. It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the Group’s
estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether it will exercise
a purchase, extension or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is
recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero. The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of months or less
and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
The Group as lessor When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or an operating lease.
Whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance
lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases. When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sublease separately. The sublease is classified as a
finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight- line basis over the lease term.
(s) Business combinations Business Combination under common control are accounted under “the pooling of interest method” i.e. in accordance with Appendix C in Ind AS - Business combinations, at carrying amount of assets and liabilities acquired and any excess of consideration issued over the net assets acquired
is recognised as capital reserve on common control business combination. The Group accounts for business combinations that are not under common control under acquisition method of accounting. The acquiree’s identifiable
assets including liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. Acquisition of interest in associate and joint ventures Acquisition of interest in an associate or a joint venture, is initially recognised at cost. Any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group’s
share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is regarded as goodwill, which is included in the carrying amount of
the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost of the investment, after
reassessment, is recognised in equity as capital reserve in the period in which the investment is acquired. Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group
will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The amount recognised as a provision
is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking into account the risks
and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying
amount is the present value of these cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material). (u) Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction
rather than through continuing use. Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying
value and fair value less costs to sell.
(v) Hyperinflationary economies The Turkish economy has been designated as hyperinflationary. Accordingly, financial statements of group entities whose functional currency is
Turkish Lira have been prepared applying Ind AS - ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’. This primarily involves (i) restatement
of non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in the balance sheet and all items of income and expenses in the statement of
profit and loss, using the general price index at the balance sheet date, and (ii) recording gain or loss on net monetary position in profit or loss.
. Recent accounting pronouncements Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
Rules as issued from time to time. There is no such notification which would have been applicable from 1st April, . . Owned assets ,. ,. . .
—
(.)
—
—
—
— . .
—
(.)
—
—
—
— ,. .
.
(.)
(.)
—
.
(.) ,. ,. .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
. ,. Land ,. ,. ,. ,.
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
(.) ,. ,.
.
.
(.)
(.)
—
. ,. .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
(.) ,. ,. .
.
.
(.)
(.)
. ,. Buildings . . . .
.
.
(.)
—
.
— . .
.
.
(.)
(.)
—
. . .
—
(.)
(.)
—
.
— . . .
—
.
(.)
(.)
. . Buildings Leasehold ,. ,. ,. ,. ,.
,.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
— ,. ,.
,.
.
(.)
(,.)
.
. ,. ,.
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
— ,. . . . .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
— . .
.
.
(.)
(.)
.
. ,. .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
— . . .
.
.
(.)
(.)
. . ,.
,.
.
.
(.)
(,.)
. Furniture and
Fixtures Plant and
Equipment . . . .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
— . .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
. ,. .
—
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
— ,. ,. .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
. . Vehicles . . . .
.
—
—
—
—
— . .
.
—
—
—
—
— . —
—
—
—
—
—
— . . —
—
—
—
—
— . Aircraft . . . .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
—
— . .
.
.
(.)
(.)
.
— . .
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
—
— . . .
.
.
(.)
(.)
— . Office
Equipments ,.
,.
,. * In the previous year ended 31st March , impairment losses have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as part of ‘Exceptional items (net)’. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ..................... NET CARRYING AMOUNT................................................................
Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ......................... Balance as at 31st March, ................................................... Balance as at 1st April, ........................................................
Depreciation expense for the year .............................................
Foreign exchange translation differences..................................
Disposals during the year ...............................................................
Disposal of subsidiaries.......................................................................
Hyperinflation adjustment ..............................................................
Reclassified as held for sale .......................................................... Balance as at 31st March, ................................................ Balance as at 31st March, ................................................
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT
Balance as at 1st April, .......................................................
Depreciation expense for the year .............................................
Foreign exchange translation differences..................................
Disposals during the year ...............................................................
Disposal of subsidiaries......................................................................
Impairment losses during the year *...........................................
Hyperinflation adjustment .............................................................. Balance as at 1st April, ......................................................
Additions /Transfer from capital work-in-progress during
the year....................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations............................
Foreign exchange translation differences..................................
Disposals during the year ...............................................................
Disposal of subsidiaries......................................................................
Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................
Reclassified as held for sale .......................................................... Balance as at 31st March, ................................................ COST
Balance as at 1st April, ......................................................
Additions/Transfer from capital work-in-progress during
the year....................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations............................
Foreign exchange translation differences..................................
Disposals during the year ...............................................................
Disposal of subsidiaries......................................................................
Hyperinflation adjustment .............................................................. Particulars a) a) Owned Assets .........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
b) Right-of-use assets..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Particulars Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment comprise of owned assets and right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of Investment property. ,. ,. ,. ,.
,.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
(.) ,. ,.
,.
.
(.)
(,.)
.
. ,. ,.
.
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
(.) ,. ,. ,.
.
.
(.)
(,.)
. ,. Total Rupees crores ,.
,.
,. Rupees crores CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - .
b)
Right-of-use assets Particulars st st st Property, Plant and Equipment (Continued)
Rupees crores Land
Buildings
Plant and
Equipment
Furniture
and
Fixtures
Vehicles
Office
Equipments
Total COST Balance as at 1st April, .
,.
.
.
.
.
,. Additions during the year ......................................................
.
.
.
—
.
.
,. Acquisitions through business combinations..............
—
.
.
—
.
—
. Foreign exchange translation differences.....................
.
.
.
—
(.)
.
. Deductions during the year ..................................................
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.) Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................
(.)
(.)
(.)
—
(.)
—
(.) Balance as at 31st March, .....................................
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. Balance as at 1st April, ............................................
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. Additions during the year ......................................................
.
.
.
—
.
.
. Foreign exchange translation differences.....................
.
.
(.)
—
(.)
.
(.) Deductions during the year....................................................
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.) Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................
(.)
—
(.)
—
—
—
(.) Hyperinflation adjustment .....................................................
—
—
.
—
—
—
. Balance as at March, .....................................
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND
IMPAIRMENT Balance as at 1st April, ............................................
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. Depreciation expense for the year .................................
.
.
.
.
.
.
. Foreign exchange translation differences.....................
.
.
.
—
(.)
.
. Deductions during the year ..................................................
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.) Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................
(.)
(.)
(.)
—
(.)
—
(.) Impairment losses during the year * ..............................
—
—
—
—
.
—
. Balance as at 31st March, .....................................
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. Balance as at April, ............................................
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. Depreciation expense for the year .................................
.
.
.
.
.
.
. Foreign exchange translation differences.....................
.
.
(.)
—
(.)
.
(.) Deductions during the year ..................................................
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.)
(.) Disposal of subsidiaries..............................................................
(.)
—
(.)
—
—
—
(.) Hyperinflation adjustment .....................................................
—
—
.
—
—
—
. Balance as at March, .....................................
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. NET CARRYING AMOUNT Net carrying amount as at 31st March, ...........
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. Net carrying amount as at 31st March, .....
.
,.
.
.
.
.
,. * In the previous year ended 31st March , impairment losses have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as part of
‘Exceptional items (net)’. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Capital Work-in-Progress . Goodwill Rupees crores
Particulars Balance at the beginning of the year................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Additions during the year ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Interest capitalisation ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Acquisitions through business combinations ................................................................................................................................................................... — . Disposal of subsidiaries .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Transfer to property, plant and equipment ...................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) Foreign exchange translation differences .......................................................................................................................................................................... (.) . Hyperinflation adjustment ............................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Impairment losses recognised * ................................................................................................................................................................................................ — (.) Balance at the end of the year ........................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. * In the previous year ended 31st March , impairment losses have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as part of
‘Exceptional items (net)’.
Ageing of capital work in progress
Rupees crores
Amount in Capital work-in-progress for a period of
Particulars Less than year - years - years More than years Total Projects in progress ................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Total ..................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Projects in progress ................................................................................................................................... . . . . ,. Total ..................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . ,. As at 31st March, : As at March, :
st Rupees crores
Particulars Balance at the beginning of the year................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Additions through business combinations ......................................................................................................................................................................... . ,. Disposal of subsidiaries .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. — (.) Measurement period adjustment to acquired assets and liabilities ............................................................................................................... (.) — Impairment during the year ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) Foreign exchange translation difference ............................................................................................................................................................................ . . Balance at the end of the year............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Segment wise allocation of goodwill
The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to segments as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Automotive................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Farm equipment..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Financial services.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Industrial Businesses and Consumer Services ............................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Services: The Group tests goodwill on an annual basis and whenever there is an indication that the CGU to which the goodwill has been allocated may be impaired.
The goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of the CGU or group of CGUs that benefit from the synergies of the acquisition and which
represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount is determined based on higher
of value‐in‐use and fair value less cost of disposal. Where there is no basis for making a reliable estimate of the price at which an orderly transaction
to sell the asset would take place between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions, the recoverable amount
is determined by value-in-use. In determining the value-in-use, cash flow projections approved by appropriate level of management are considered. In
circumstances where a reliable value-in-use estimate is difficult to make whereas market value of the asset or the CGU or group of CGUs is readily
available, the latter is used for the determination of recoverable amount with appropriate adjustments, where applicable. Apart from the observable market information, significant management estimates and judgments are used to determine the recoverable amounts based
on value-in-use. Key assumptions used for determination of value-in-use amount includes estimated growth rates (including terminal growth rates),
margins and discount rates. Cash flow projections are usually considered for next - years and represent management’s best estimate about future
developments with due consideration for past performance. Cash flows beyond the five‐year period are extrapolated using terminal growth rates. In certain cases, the performance of the cash generating units were below their expected levels. Accordingly, the Group assessed such cash generating
units for the recoverable amounts based on fair value less cost of disposal and value-in-use estimates. The value-in-use calculation for the year used discount rates ranging from .% to .% (: .% to .%) and the terminal growth
rates ranging from % to % (: % to %). The goodwill impairment recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss and the operating segments to which it relates are as below:
(a) ‘Farm Equipment’ segment - Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). This relates to goodwill allocated to an international subsidiary. (b) ‘Financial services’ segment - Nil (: Rs. . crores). This relates to goodwill allocated to an international subsidiary. Goodwill impairment has been included under ‘ Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense’ for the year ended 31st March and as
‘Exceptional items (net)’ for the year ended 31st March in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Other Intangible Assets Rupees crores Particulars Development
Expenditure Computer
Software Brand License
& Trademarks Others Balance as at 1st April, ..................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Additions/Transfer from intangibles assets under development
during the year........................................................................................................ ,. . — . ,. Acquisitions through business combinations....................................... . . . . . Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. . . . . . Deductions during the year ........................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) Hyperinflation adjustment .............................................................................. . . — Balance as at March, .............................................................. ,. . Balance as at 1st April, ..................................................................... ,. Additions/Transfer from intangibles assets under development
during the year.........................................................................................................
Acquisitions through business combinations....................................... . Intangible assets under development
Rupees crores Total Particulars Balance at the beginning of the year................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Additions during the year ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Interest capitalisation ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Acquisitions through business combinations ................................................................................................................................................................... — . Disposal of subsidiaries .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. — (.) (.) Transfer to other intangible assets ....................................................................................................................................................................................... (,.) (,.) . . . . ,. Foreign exchange translation differences .......................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . ,. Impairment losses recognised * ................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) ,. . . . ,. Balance at the end of the year ........................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. — — . . . COST st Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. (.) (.) . (.) (.) Deductions during the year ........................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... — (.) — (.) (.) Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................ . . — . . Balance as at 31st March, .............................................................. ,. . . . ,. Balance as at 1st April, ..................................................................... ,. . . . ,. Amortisation expense for the year .......................................................... ,. . . . ,. * In the previous year ended March , impairment losses, Rs. . crores and Rs. . crores have been recognised as ‘Exceptional items
(net)’ and ‘Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense’, respectively, in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
st Ageing of intangible assets under development
Rupees crores
Amount in Intangibles assets under development for
a period of
Particulars ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. . . . . . Deductions during the year ........................................................................... (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) — (.) (.) Impairment losses during the year * ....................................................... . . — — . Hyperinflation adjustment .............................................................................. — . — . . Balance as at 31st March, .............................................................. ,. . . . ,. Balance as at April, .................................................................. ,. . . . ,. Amortisation expense for the year .......................................................... ,. . . . ,. Foreign exchange translation differences.............................................. (.) (.) . (.) (.) Deductions during the year ........................................................................... (.) (.) — (.) (.) Disposal of subsidiaries....................................................................................... — (.) — (.) Impairment losses during the year .......................................................... . — — — Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................ . . — Balance as at March, .............................................................. ,. . Net carrying amount as at 31st March, .................................... ,. Net carrying amount as at March, ............................. ,. st st As at 31st March, Projects in progress...................................................................................................................................... . Less than year - years - years More than years Total ,. ,. . . ,. Total........................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, Projects in progress...................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. . . ,. ,. . . . ,. Total........................................................................................................................................................................ ,. . . . ,. Investments
A. Non-Current Investments
a) Measured as per equity accounting method Particulars Rupees crores (.) Quoted
Investments in equity instruments
— of Associates*.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. . . . . ,. . . . ,. Unquoted
Investments in equity instruments
— of Associates*..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
— of Joint ventures*........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,.
,. ,.
,. . . . ,. Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Investments measured as per equity accounting method.......................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. NET CARRYING AMOUNT
st * In the previous year ended 31st March , impairment losses have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss as part of
‘Exceptional items (net)’.
Note:
Others include technical knowhow, customer relationships, Transferable Development Rights etc. * Refer note . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Investments (Continued) b) . Measured as per other than equity accounting method Particulars Rupees crores Amortised Cost Quoted
Investments in non-convertible
debentures/bonds .....................................................
.
Investments in government securities ....... ,.
Investments in equity instruments ..............
—
Investments in Infrastructure Investment
Trust ...................................................................................
—
,.
Unquoted
Investments in preference shares
— of Joint ventures *................................................
.
Investments in debentures/bonds
— of associates and joint ventures *.............
.
— of Other entities....................................................
—
Investments in Alternate Investment
Fund......................................................................................
—
Investments in equity instruments.................
—
.
Total.................................................................................... ,. FVTOCI FVTPL Total .
,.
— .
,.
. .
,.
. —
—
,. —
—
. .
,.
,. .
,.
. —
,. —
,. —
,. .
,. —
. .
,. —
,. . — — . . . . —
. —
. —
. .
— .
— .
. .
. —
—
.
,. —
.
.
,. —
.
.
,. .
.
.
,. .
.
.
. .
.
.
,. .
.
.
,.
Rupees crores Other Disclosures: Aggregate amount of quoted investments (Gross)............................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Market Value of quoted Investments........................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Aggregate amount of unquoted investments (Gross)....................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Investments (Continued)
Rupees crores
Other disclosures: Aggregate amount of quoted investments........................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Market value of quoted investments........................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Aggregate amount of unquoted investments..................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. . Trade Receivables Rupees crores
Amortised Cost FVTOCI FVTPL Total Investments in debentures /bonds............................ — — . . . . . . Investments in equity instruments............................ — — . . — — . . Investments in government securities.................... . . . . — — . . Investments in mutual funds......................................... — — — — ,. ,. ,. ,. . . ,. . ,. ,. ,. ,. Investments in certificate of deposits..................... — . ,. ,. . ,. ,. ,. Investments in corporate fixed deposits................... . . — — — — . . Investment in Triparty Repo Dealing System
(TREPS) ........................................................................................ . — — — — — . — Investments in commercial paper.............................. — — . . . . ,. . . . ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. . . ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Quoted Unquoted Total................................................................................................ Non Current Current Secured, considered good.............................................................................................................................. . . . . Unsecured, considered good........................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. Credit impaired...................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . ,. ,. Less: Loss allowance [Refer note (b) (ii)]................................................................................... . . . . Total............................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. Ageing of trade receivables Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due Current Investments Particulars Rupees crores Particulars * Refer note .
B. Less than months months year - years - years More than years Total Undisputed trade receivables — considered good.................. ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables — credit impaired ................... . . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables — considered good ..................... — . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables — credit impaired ......................... . . . . . . . ,. ,. . . . . ,. Less: Loss allowance [Refer note (b) (ii)] ......................... (.) Total .................................................................................................................. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Trade Receivables (Continued) . Other financial assets
Rupees crores Rupees crores
Particulars Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due . Less than months months year - years - years More than years Non Current Current ,. ,. — — Measured at amortised cost Total Bank deposits..........................................................................................................................................................
Balances with banks on margin accounts.......................................................................................... . . — — Security deposit .................................................................................................................................................. . . . . . Interest accrued on investment, other loans and other financial assets.................... . . . . . . Government grant receivable...................................................................................................................... ,. ,. . . . . . Corporate Fixed Deposit.................................................................................................................................. . — — — Others........................................................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . ,. Measured at fair value Less: Loss allowance [Refer note (b) (ii)] ......................... (.) Foreign currency forwards and options, interest rate swaps & commodity
derivatives ............................................................................................................................................................. — — . . Total ...................................................................................................................... ,. Derivatives on interest over subsidiaries and joint ventures................................................ . . — — Total.............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Undisputed trade receivables — considered good.................. ,. ,. . . . . ,. Undisputed trade receivables — credit impaired ................... . . . . . . Disputed trade receivables — considered good ..................... — . . . . Disputed trade receivables — credit impaired.......................... . . . . ,. ,. . . Loans Rupees crores Particulars Non Current Current Others mainly includes receivables for oil royalty income, scrap sales and other recoverable expenses.
. Income taxes (a) Income tax recognised in profit or loss
Rupees crores Loans to related parties
Unsecured, considered good............................................................................................................
Credit impaired.......................................................................................................................................... . . . . Particulars
Current Tax . . — — . . . . Less: Loss allowance ........................................................................................................................... . . — — Total ...................................................................................................................................................... . . . . Secured, considered good.................................................................................................................. — — — . Unsecured, considered good............................................................................................................ . . . . Credit impaired.......................................................................................................................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Other Loans Less: Loss allowance ...........................................................................................................................
Total ...................................................................................................................................................... Financial Services receivable #
Secured, considered good.................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Unsecured, considered good............................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. Significant increase in credit risk................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Credit impaired.......................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Less: Loss allowance............................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Total ...................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Grand Total .............................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. # Refer Note (b) (iii) for disclosures related to credit risk, impairment of financial services receivables under expected credit loss model and related
disclosures. In respect of current year.................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. In respect of prior years........................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) Unrecognised tax losses of previous year used to reduce current tax expense ....................................................................... (.) (.) Total current tax expense/ (income)...................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. In respect of current year origination and reversal of temporary differences............................................................................... . (.) Effect of utilisation/(recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses....................................................................................................... . (.) Write down/reversal of deferred tax assets/ liabilities .................................................................................................................................. (.) — In respect of prior years........................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) . Total deferred tax expense/(income) .................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Total income tax expense/(income) ...................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Deferred Tax MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Income taxes (Continued)
(b) . Income taxes (Continued) Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
Particulars Rupees crores Effective portion of gains and losses on designated portion of hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge......... . (.) Net change in fair value of investments in debt instruments at FVTOCI.......................................................................................... (.) . Net change in fair value of investments in equity shares at FVTOCI................................................................................................... . . Remeasurement of defined benefit plans................................................................................................................................................................. (.) . Exchange differences in translating the financial statements of foreign operations .............................................................. . (.) Total deferred tax (expense)/income .................................................................................................................................................................. (.) . Deferred tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income (d) Amounts on which deferred tax asset has not been created and related expiry period Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of following items, because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available
against which the Group can use the benefit therefrom.
Rupees crores
Particulars (i) Current tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income Deductible temporary differences (no expiry date).......................................................................................................................................... . . Unused tax losses (revenue in nature)...................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Unused tax losses (capital in nature)......................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Unused tax losses — revenue in nature
Expiry period Rupees crores Net change in fair value of investments in equity shares at FVTOCI................................................................................................... — (.) Up to five years.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. . Total current tax (expense)/income ..................................................................................................................................................................... — (.) More than five years............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total income tax (expense)/income ...................................................................................................................................................................... (.) . No expiry date............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Classification of income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
Income taxes related to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss.................................................................................. (.) . Income taxes related to items that will be reclassified to profit or loss............................................................................................ . . Total..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) . (c)	The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at tax rate to income tax expense reported in consolidated statement of profit and
loss is as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Profit before tax..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Applicable income tax rate................................................................................................................................................................................................ .% .% Expected income tax expense......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Effect of different tax rates in local and foreign tax jurisdictions........................................................................................................ . (.) Effect of income exempt from tax/non taxable on compliance of conditions............................................................................. (.) (.) Effect of income chargeable at specified tax rates ....................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Effect of expenses/provisions that is non-deductible in determining taxable profit................................................................ . . Unrecognised tax losses of previous year used to reduce current tax expense........................................................................ (.) (.) Effect of unused tax losses and tax offsets for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised........................... . . Effect of utilisation/(recognition) of deferred tax on capital losses (net)........................................................................................ . (.) Reversal of deferred tax assets/liabilities (net) ................................................................................................................................................ (.) — Effect of net additional /(reversal) of provision in respect of prior years ..................................................................................... (.) (.) Others................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) (.) Income tax expense recognised in consolidated statement of profit and loss.................................................................... ,. ,. Tax effect of adjustments to reconcile expected income tax expense to reported income tax expense: (ii) Unused tax losses — capital in nature Rupees crores Expiry period Up to five years.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . More than five years............................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (e)	Aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures for which deferred
tax liability has not been recognised :
Rupees crores
Particulars
Undistributed earnings.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Income taxes (Continued)
(f) . Income taxes (Continued) Deferred tax assets/ (liabilities) (net) Balances of deferred tax assets /deferred tax liabilities are presented in balance sheet as below: The amount of the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet are as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Balance as Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised
Foreign
at 1st April, in profit or
in OCI
in Equity in business
exchange loss
combination/ translation
disposal of differences
subsidiaries Balance
as at 31st
March, Deferred tax liabilities Particulars Deferred tax assets (net).................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Deferred tax liabilities (net)............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Net deferred tax asset/(liabilities) ............................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) . . Other Assets (Non-Financial)
Particulars Property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets ................................................................................................... ,. (.) — — . (.) ,. Undistributed profit of associate ...................................... . . (.) . — — . Others..................................................................................................... . . (.) — (.) (.) . (a) ,. . (.) . . (.) ,. Deferred tax assets
Provision for employee benefits.......................................... . . (.) — (.) (.) . Allowances for expected credit loss/net change in
fair value of debt instruments at FVTOCI .................. . . (.) — — . ,. Carryforward tax losses............................................................ . . — — . . . MAT credit ........................................................................................... . (.) — — — — . Unrealised gain on inter-company transactions
(net).......................................................................................................... . . — — — — . Others..................................................................................................... . (.) . — . (.) . (b) ,. . (.) — . (.) ,. Net deferred tax asset/(liabilities) (b-a) ...................... . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.)
Rupees crores Particulars Balance
as at
1st April, Recognised
in profit or
loss Recognised
in OCI Recognised
in Equity Recognised
in business
combination/
disposal of
subsidiaries Foreign
exchange
translation
differences Balance
as at
31st March, Rupees crores Rupees crores
Non Current Current Capital Advances................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. — — Balances with government authorities (other than current taxes)................................. . . ,. ,. Contract assets ................................................................................................................................................... . . . . Deferred acquisition cost ............................................................................................................................. . . . . Others ........................................................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. Total ........................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Property, plant and equipment and intangible
assets....................................................................................................... ,. (.) — — (.) (.) ,. Undistributed profit of associates....................................... . . . (.) — — . Others...................................................................................................... . (.) . — . (.) . (a) ,. . . (.) (.) (.) ,. Provision for employee benefits........................................... . . . — (.) . . Deferred tax assets
Allowances for expected credit loss/net change in
fair value of debt instruments at FVTOCI ................... ,. (.) . — (.) . . Carryforward tax losses............................................................. . . — — (.) . . MAT credit............................................................................................. . . — — (.) — . Unrealised gain on inter-company transactions
(net).......................................................................................................... . . — — (.) — . Others...................................................................................................... . . . — (.) (.) . (b) ,. . . — (.) . ,. Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (b-a)....................... (.) . . . (.) . . Others include advances to suppliers, prepaid expenses, export benefits receivable and other recoverable expenses.
Significant changes in contract assets during the year are as follows:—
Particulars Rupees crores Reclassification of opening balances of contract assets to trade receivables........................................................................................... . . Adjustments due to contract modification........................................................................................................................................................................... . . In addition to the contract balances disclosed above, the group has also recognised a deferred acquisition cost in relation to some of the long-term
contracts.
Rupees crores
Particulars Assets recognised from incremental cost of acquisition incurred to fulfil a contract ........................................................................ . . Amortisation of expenses during the year ......................................................................................................................................................................... . . . Inventories
Particulars Deferred tax liabilities Rupees crores Raw materials and bought-out components [includes in-transit Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores)]............ ,. ,. Work-in-progress...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Work-in-progress-property development activity and long term contracts.................................................................................................. ,. ,. Finished goods produced................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Stock-in-trade [includes in-transit Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores)] ............................................................................................ ,. ,. Manufactured components............................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Stores and spares ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Loose tools.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Food, beverages, smokes and operating supplies............................................................................................................................................................. . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Notes:
(a) The cost of inventories recognised as an expense during the year was Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores)
(b)	The cost of inventories recognised as an expense include Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) in respect of write-down of inventories to
net realisable value, and has been reduced by Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) in respect of the reversal of such write downs.
(c)	Certain companies in the Group have availed working capital facilities and other non-fund based facilities viz. bank guarantees and letters of credit,
which are secured by hypothecation of inventories.
(d) Mode of valuation of inventories is stated in Note . (i) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Cash and cash equivalents
Particulars Rupees crores . Equity share capital (Continued)
(a) . ,. ,. – On saving accounts............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . – Fixed deposits with original maturity of less than months.............................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Cheques, drafts on hand (including in transit) ................................................................................................................................................................... . . Cash on hand.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents Earmarked balances with banks.................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Balances with banks on margin accounts.............................................................................................................................................................................. . . Fixed deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Equity share capital Rupees crores ,,,, (: ,,,,) Ordinary (equity) Shares of Rs. each ....................................................................... ,. ,. ,, (: ,,) Unclassified Shares of Rs. each ........................................................................................................... . . ,,, (: ,,,) Preference Shares of Rs. each ........................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. . . . . ,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up issued to M&M benefit
trust ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Adjusted issued, subscribed and paid-up......................................................................................................................................................................... . . Issued, Subscribed and paid-up: Less:
,,, (: ,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up issued to M&M ESOP trust
but not yet allotted to employees..............................................................................................................................................................................................
Less: No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores No.
of Shares Rupees
Crores At the beginning of the year............................................................................................ ,,,, . ,,,, . — — , . ,,,, . ,,,, . Shares issued to M&M ESOP Trust but not allotted to Employees............ ,,, . ,,, . Shares issued to M&M Benefit Trust................................................................................ ,,, . ,,, . Adjusted issued, subscribed and paid-up share capital............................. ,,,, . ,,,, . Add:
Shares issued under scheme of arrangement........................................................... Less: (b) The Ordinary (Equity) Shares of the Company rank pari-passu in all respects including voting rights and entitlement to dividend. (c)	Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by shareholders holding more than % of the aggregate Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up shares of the
Company:
Name of the Shareholder No.
of Shares %
Shareholding No.
of Shares %
Shareholding Prudential Management & Services Private Limited..................................................... ,,, . ,,, . M&M Benefit Trust................................................................................................................................. ,,, . ,,, . Life Insurance Corporation of India............................................................................................ ,,, . ,,, . Authorised: ,,,, (: ,,,,) Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each fully paid up.................................................... Issued, subscribed and paid-up Rupees crores Particulars Particulars Reconciliation of number of ordinary (equity) shares and amount outstanding:
Particulars Balances with banks
– On current accounts.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Equity share capital (Continued)
(d) . Borrowings
A. Details of Ordinary (Equity) Shares held by promoters in the Company’s Paid-up Share Capital : Name of the Promotors
No.
of Shares %
Shareholding Non-Current % Change
during the
year No.
of Shares %
Shareholding Rupees crores
Particulars (i) % Change
during the
year ,, .% — ,, .% — Late Keshub Mahindra .................................... — — (.%) ,, .% — Sub Total (A).......................................................... ,, .% ,, .% ,. ,. (i) From banks.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (ii) From other parties................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . ,. ,. ,. ,. . . Long term borrowings
Secured (Measured at amortised cost):
Debentures & bonds....................................................................................................................................................................................................... Promoters:
Anand Mahindra..................................................... Term loan Unsecured (Measured at amortised cost):
Promoter Group: Debentures & bonds....................................................................................................................................................................................................... Anjali K Mahindra ............................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% .% Anuradha Mahindra ........................................... ,, .% — ,, .% — (i) From banks.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Dhruv S Sharma ................................................. , .% — , .% — (ii) From other parties................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Deveshwar Jagat Sharma ............................ , .% — , .% — Deposits................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Gautam P Khandelwal .................................... , .% — , .% — Loan from related parties.......................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. ,. ,. Leena S Labroo ................................................... ,, .% .% ,, .% — Nisheeta Labroo .................................................. ,, .% .% ,, .% — Aneesha Labroo .................................................. ,, .% .% ,, .% — Radhika Nath ........................................................ , .% — , .% — Sanjay Labroo ....................................................... ,, Marthand Singh Mahindra ............................ , .% — ,, .% .% .% .% — .% — Kabir Malhotra ..................................................... , .% .% — .% — Anjali Malhotra ..................................................... , .% .% — .% — Deepak Varde ........................................................ , .% .% — .% — Chetan Varde ........................................................ ,, .% .% — .% — Yuthica Mahindra Family Trust ................. ,, .% .% — .% — Late Sudha Keshub Mahindra ................... — — (.%) ,, .% — Uma R Malhotra .................................................. ,, .% .% ,, .% — Yuthica Keshub Mahindra ............................. ,, .% — ,, .% (.%) Kema Services International Private
Limited ........................................................................ ,, .% — ,, .% — Prudential Management and Services
Private Limited ...................................................... ,,, .% (.%) ,,, .% — M&M Benefit Trust ............................................ ,,, .% — ,,, .% — Sub Total (B)......................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Total (A+B)............................................................... ,,, .% ,,, .% Term loan Total....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (a)	Other loans primarily comprise of deferred sales tax loans which are interest free and repayable in five equal installments after ten years from
the year of availment of respective loan. B. (b)	Long term borrowings carry varying rates of interest ranging from .% p.a. to .% p.a. which includes borrowing rates at overseas
subsidiaries. These long term borrowings have maturities starting from FY and ending with FY .
Current
Particulars
(i) Rupees crores Short term borrowings
Secured (Measured at amortised cost)
Loans repayable on demand
– From banks and cash credit account............................................................................................................................................................. . . Term loan from banks................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. . . Unsecured (Measured at amortised cost):
Deposits...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Loans repayable on demand
– From banks and cash credit account............................................................................................................................................................. . . Commercial papers.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. During the year ended 31st March , aggregate of ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares of Rs. each allotted as fully paid-up pursuant to Schemes
of Arrangement without payment having been received in cash. Term loan from banks ................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . . Details of proposed dividend Loan from related parties.......................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Other loans........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ,. ,. Total .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (e) For the period of preceding five years as on the balance sheet date, Issued, Subscribed and Paid-up Share Capital includes: Particulars Proposed Dividend per equity share (Rs.) ........................................................................................................................................................................... . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Borrowings (Continued) . Trade payables Rupees crores Rupees crores
Particulars
(ii) Unsecured (Measured at amortised cost):
Debentures & bonds.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Term loan
(i) From banks...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) From other parties ...........................................................................................................................................................................................
Deposits...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Loan from related parties..........................................................................................................................................................................................
Other loans...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Grand Total .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,.
.
,. ,.
.
,. ,. ,. .
.
,.
—
.
,.
,.
,. .
—
,.
.
.
,.
,.
,. Secured borrowings are secured by a pari-passu charge on immovable properties, both present and future of certain entities in the Group, subject to
certain exclusions and are also secured by pari-passu charge on the movable properties of certain entities including inventories, movable machinery,
machinery spares, tools and accessories, both present and future, subject to certain exclusions. C. Particulars Non Current For Financial Services business, secured borrowings are secured by exclusive charges on receivables under loan contracts.
Reconciliation of movement in borrowings and lease liabilities to cash flow from financing activities
Particulars Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises............................. — — . . Total outstanding dues other than micro enterprises and small enterprises .......
— Trade payable...................................................................................................................................................
— Acceptances......................................................................................................................................................
Total............................................................................................................................................................................. —
—
— .
—
. ,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,. Opening balance
– Long term borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Non Current lease liabilities...............................................................................................................................................................................................
– Short term borrowings..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Current lease liabilities..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Unclaimed matured deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................
Cash flow movements
– Proceeds from borrowings.................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Repayment of borrowings...................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Net increase in loans repayable on demand and cash credit .................................................................................................................
– Repayment of lease liabilities ........................................................................................................................................................................................
Non-cash movements
– Addition to lease liabilities during the year .........................................................................................................................................................
– On account of acquisition /(disposal) of subsidiaries (net) .......................................................................................................................
– Other adjustments...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Effect of amortisation of loan origination costs and foreign exchange translation.................................................................
Closing balance
– Long term borrowings...........................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Non Current lease liabilities...............................................................................................................................................................................................
– Short Term Borrowings.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Current lease liabilities..........................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Unclaimed matured Deposits............................................................................................................................................................................................
Total....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Ageing of trade payables ,.
,.
,.
.
.
,. ,.
,.
,.
.
.
,. ,.
(,.)
(.)
(.)
,. ,.
(,.)
.
(.)
,. .
.
.
(.)
. ,.
(,.)
.
.
(,.) ,.
,.
,.
.
.
,. ,.
,.
,.
.
.
,. Rupees crores Particulars Not Due Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Less than year - years - years More than years .
,.
—
,. .
,.
—
,. .
.
—
. .
.
—
. —
.
.
. ,. ,. . . . Total Trade payable
MSME .....................................................................................
Others ...................................................................................
Disputed dues — Others ..........................................
Accrued Expenses ........................................................
Total......................................................................................... .
,.
.
,.
,.
,.
Rupees crores Particulars Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments Rupees crores Current Current maturities of long-term borrowing
Secured (Measured at amortised cost):
Debentures & bonds.......................................................................................................................................................................................................
Term loan
(i) From banks...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) From other parties.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Not Due Less than year - years - years More than years .
,.
—
,. .
,.
.
,. .
.
—
. .
.
.
. .
.
.
. ,. ,. . . . Total Trade payable
MSME .....................................................................................
Others ...................................................................................
Disputed dues — Others ..........................................
Accrued Expenses ........................................................
Total ........................................................................................
. Other financial liabilities
Particulars .
,.
.
,.
,.
,.
Rupees crores Non Current Current Unclaimed dividends #.....................................................................................................................................
Unclaimed matured deposits and interest accrued thereon................................................
Interest accrued...................................................................................................................................................
Others.......................................................................................................................................................................... —
—
.
. —
—
.
. .
.
,.
,. .
.
,.
,. Measured at fair value
Foreign currency forwards and options, Interest rate swaps & commodity
derivatives ..............................................................................................................................................................
Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interest
Total............................................................................................................................................................................. .
.
,. .
.
. .
—
,. .
.
,. Measured at amortised cost Other liabilities majorly include salaries and wages payable and capital creditors.
# There are no amounts due and outstanding to be credited to the Investor Education and Protection Fund. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Provisions . Revenue from Operations Rupees crores Rupees crores
Particulars Non Current Particulars Current Provision for employee benefits................................................................................................................. . ,. . . Provision for warranties................................................................................................................................... . . . . Provision for service coupons...................................................................................................................... . . . . Provision for others............................................................................................................................................. . . . . Total............................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Provision for warranties relates to provision made in respect of sale of certain products, the estimated cost of which is accrued at the time of sale. The
products are generally covered under a free warranty period ranging from months to years.
Provision for employee benefits includes gratuity, provident fund, post retirement benefits, compensated absence etc.
Rupees crores
Warranty Service coupons Opening Balance................................................................................................................................................... ,. . . . Additional net provisions recognised during the year............................................................... . . . . Amounts utilised during the year............................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) (.) Unwinding of discount...................................................................................................................................... . . . . Disposal of subsidiaries.................................................................................................................................... — (.) — — Foreign exchange translation differences........................................................................................... (.) (.) — — Closing Balance.................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . . From Others
Government grant and incentives..................................................................................................................................................................................
Other operating revenue....................................................................................................................................................................................................... Rupees crores
Non Current Current Statutory dues (other than income taxes)......................................................................................... — — ,. ,. Contract liabilities................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. Others............................................................................................................................................................................ — — . . Total............................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Time Band
Less than year......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Greater than year but less than years..........................................................................................................................................................................
Greater than years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Recognition of revenue arising from opening balance of contract liabilities ............................................................................................ ,. ,. ,.
,. ,.
,. .
.
,. .
.
,. ,,. ,,. ,.
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
,.
,. Reconciliation of revenue recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss with contracted price
Rupees crores
Revenue from contract with customer as per the contract price ,,. ,,. Adjustments made to contract price
–
Trade discounts, volume rebates, return etc...........................................................................................................................................................
–
Deferment of revenue............................................................................................................................................................................................................
–
Recognition of revenue out of opening balance of contract liabilities............................................................................................... (,.)
(.)
,. (,.)
(.)
,. Revenue from contract with customer as per the consolidated statement of profit and loss...................................... ,,. ,,. Revenue disaggregation as per nature of products and services and geography has been included in segment information. (Refer note ).
. Income from investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Significant changes in Contract liabilities during the year are as follows:— ,.
,.
.
,.
,,. The Group applies the practical expedient of Ind AS and does not disclose information about remaining performance obligations that have original
expected duration of one year or less. Revenue disclosed above does not include estimated amount of variable consideration that are constrained. Particulars ,,.
,.
.
,.
,,. The following table includes revenue expected to be recognised in the future related to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially
unsatisfied) at the reporting date:
Rupees crores Interest income from associates and joint ventures ...................................................................................................................................................
Gain on fair value of options related to subsidiaries and joint ventures ......................................................................................................
Gain on change in ownership interests in subsidiaries (resulting in loss of control), associates and joint ventures and
change of relationships*.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Particulars ^ Other operating revenue mainly includes income from oil royalty and scrap sales. Contract liabilities represents deferred revenue and advance received from customers.
Rupees crores The Group undertakes periodic revalidations in the estimate of variable consideration on account of various economic factors. The amount of revenue
recognised from performance obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods is aggregating to Rs. . crores (: Rs . crores). Particulars . Other non financial liabilities
Particulars From financial services
Interest income of financial services business...................................................................................................................................................... Total .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The movement in provision for warranty and service coupon is as follows :
Particulars From contract with customers (as defined under Ind AS )
Sale of products..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Sale of services............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Income from long term contracts..................................................................................................................................................................................
Other operating revenue^.................................................................................................................................................................................................... * includes gain on sale of investments Rs. . crores. Rupees crores .
—
. .
.
— . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Other Income
Particulars
Interest Income
On financial assets measured at amortised cost................................................................................................................................................
On financial assets measured at FVTOCI...................................................................................................................................................................
Dividend income
Mutual funds..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Net gains/(losses) arising on financial assets/ liabilities measured at FVTPL..............................................................................................
Other non-operating income (net of directly attributable expenses)...............................................................................................................
Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Rupees crores .
. .
. .
,.
.
,. .
.
.
,. . Cost of materials consumed
Particulars
Opening inventories...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Purchases......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Adjustment on account of business combination/(disposal) of subsidiary (net)........................................................................................
Hyperinflation adjustment................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Foreign currency translation difference..................................................................................................................................................................................
Less: Closing inventories....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Rupees crores ,.
,.
(.)
.
(.)
,.
,.
,. ,.
,.
.
.
.
,.
,.
,. . Employee benefits expense Rupees crores Particulars Salaries and wages, including bonus......................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Contribution to provident and other funds.......................................................................................................................................................................... . . Share based payment expenses * (Refer note )......................................................................................................................................................... . . Staff welfare expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. *	Share based payment expenses include equity settled share based payments and cash settled share based payments.
. Finance cost
Particulars Rupees crores Interest expense on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost............................................................................................................... ,. ,. Less: Amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets............................................................................................................................................ . . ,. ,. Interest on lease liabilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Other borrowing costs......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Out of the above, finance cost related to:
. Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
Particulars
Opening inventories
Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Manufactured components...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Inventories on business combination/(disposal) of subsidiaries (net)
Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Manufactured components...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Hyperinflation adjustment
Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Foreign currency translation difference
Less: Closing Inventories
Finished goods produced...................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Work-in-progress......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Stock-in-trade.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Manufactured components...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
Net (increase) in inventories...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Rupees crores ,.
.
,.
.
,. ,.
.
,.
.
,. (.)
(.)
—
—
(.) (.)
.
(.)
.
(.) .
.
.
(.) .
.
.
(.) ,.
.
,.
.
,.
(,.) ,.
.
,.
.
,.
(,.) — Financial services business.................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. — Others................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Other borrowing cost mainly includes discounting charges and unwinding of discount on financial liabilities other than lease liability. The weighted average capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation ranges from .% to .% p.a.
(: .% p.a.).
. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment expense
Particulars Rupees crores Depreciation of property, plant and equipment................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Depreciation of right-of-use assets............................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Amortisation of intangible assets................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets and intangible assets under development........................................................... . . Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Loss from investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Rupees crores Particulars Loss on fair value of options related to subsidiaries and joint ventures........................................................................................................ . . Loss on change in ownership interests in subsidiaries (resulting in loss of control), associates and joint ventures and
change of relationships....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . — Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Other Expenses Rupees crores . Earnings Per Share (EPS) Profit for the year for basic EPS (Rupees crores)........................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Profit for the year for diluted EPS (Rupees crores).................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing basic EPS.................................................................... ,,,, ,,,, Effect of dilutive potential Ordinary (Equity) Shares................................................................................................................................................... ,, ,, . Weighted average number of Ordinary (Equity) Shares used in computing diluted EPS............................................................... ,,,, ,,,, . . Basic Earnings per share (Rs.) (Face value of Rs. per share)........................................................................................................................... . . Freight outward........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Diluted Earnings per share (Rs.)................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Advertisement........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Commission on sales / contracts................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. . Sales promotion expenses................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Travelling and conveyance expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Cost of projects........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Particulars Stores consumed..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Tools consumed........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Power and fuel......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Rent including lease rentals............................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Insurance....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Repairs and maintenance.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Legal and professional charges..................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Hire and service and subcontracting charges.................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Provision for expected credit losses including write offs (net).............................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Miscellaneous expenses..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. a)	Short term leases and low value leases recongised as an expense for the year ended March, is aggregating to Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores) and Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores) respectively.
st b)	Miscellaneous expenses include (gain)/loss on net monetary position related to entities under hyperinflationary economies for the year ended
31st March, aggregating to loss of Rs. . crores (: gain of Rs. . crores).
c)	Break-up of expected credit loss recognised during the year is as follows:Rupees crores
Particulars Expected credit loss on:
— Trade receivables........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . — Contract assets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . — Financial services receivable.............................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. — Other financial assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Total................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Exceptional items (net)
Previous year’s Exceptional items includes the following: Rupees crores Particulars
 ain on change in ownership interests in subsidiaries (resulting in loss of control), associates and joint ventures and change of
G
relationships......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. Impairment of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets.................................................................................................................................................... (.) Impairment of intangible assets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) Impairment of capital work-in-progress and Intangible assets under development........................................................................................................................ (.) Impairment of capital advances............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) Impairment of other assets...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) Impairment of goodwill................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (.) Impairment reversal of investment accounted using equity method (net)............................................................................................................................................ . Total.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. Particulars . Employee Benefits
(a) General description of defined benefit plans
(i) Gratuity and pension plans The Company and some of the group entities in India operate a gratuity plan covering qualifying employees. The benefit payable is the greater
of the amount calculated as per the Payment of Gratuity Act or the Company scheme applicable to the employee. The benefit vests upon
completion of five years of continuous service and once vested it is payable to employees on retirement or on termination of employment. In case
of death while in service, the gratuity is payable irrespective of vesting. Some entities makes annual contribution to the group gratuity scheme
administered by the Life Insurance Corporation of India through its Gratuity Trust Fund. Certain overseas subsidiaries also provide for retirement benefits in the nature of pension plans in accordance with the local laws. Post retirement medical (ii) Few entities in the Group provide post retirement medical cover to select grade of employees to cover the retiring employee and their spouse
upto a specified age through mediclaim policy on which the premiums are paid. The eligibility of the employee for the benefit as well as the
amount of medical cover purchased is determined by the grade of the employee at the time of retirement. (iii) Post retirement housing allowance The Company operates a post retirement benefit scheme for a certain grade of employees in which a monthly allowance determined on the basis
of the last drawn basic salary at the time of retirement, is paid to the retiring employee in lieu of housing.
(b) Risk exposure
Through its defined benefit plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: (i) Asset volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with references to government bond yields; if plan assets underperform compared
to this yield, this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans may hold equity type assets, which may carry volatility and
associated risk. (ii) Changes in bond yields A decrease in government bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value of
the plan’s investment in debt instruments. (iii) Inflation risk The present value of some of the defined benefit plan obligations are calculated with reference to the future salaries of plan participants.
As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. The post retirement medical benefit obligation is sensitive
to medical inflation and accordingly, an increase in medical inflation rate would increase the plan’s liability. (iv) Life expectancy The present value of defined benefit plan obligation is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants, both
during and after the employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Employee Benefits (Continued)
(c) . Employee Benefits (Continued)
Rupees crores Details of defined benefit plans as per actuarial valuation are as below:
Rupees crores Particulars Funded Plan Particulars Unfunded Plans Gratuity and pension
plans Gratuity and pension
plans Post retirement
medical benefits Post retirement
housing allowance Funded Plan Unfunded Plans Gratuity and pension
plans Gratuity and pension
plans Post retirement
medical benefits Post retirement
housing allowance (iv) Changes in fair value of plan
assets (i) Amounts recognised in profit
or loss:
Current service cost............................ . . . . . . . . Opening fair value of plan
assets........................................................... ,. ,. — — — — — — Past service cost................................... . . — — (.) — — — Net interest expense/(income).... (.) . . . . . . . Interest income..................................... . . — — — — — — Total amount included in
employee benefits expense ............ . . . . (.) . . . Return on plan assets
excluding interest income............. . (.) — — — — — — Contributions by employer............ . . — — . . . . Benefits paid........................................... (.) (.) — — (.) (.) (.) (.) Business combination....................... — . — — — — — — Disposal of subsidiaries................... — (.) — — — — — — Foreign exchange translation
difference.................................................. (.) . — — — — — — Closing fair value of plan
assets........................................................... ,. ,. — — — — — — Defined benefit obligation............. ,. ,. . . . . . . Fair value of plan assets ............. ,. ,. — — — — — — Surplus/(Deficit).................................... . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Current portion of the above..... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Non current portion of the
above............................................................ . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (ii) Amounts recognised in other
comprehensive income
Remeasurement (gains)/losses:
a)	Actuarial (gains)/losses
arising from changes in:
– demographic assumptions. (.) . (.) (.) . (.) — — – financial assumptions........... . (.) . . . (.) . (.) – experience adjustments..... (.) . (.) . (.) . . (.) b)	Return on plan assets,
excluding amount included
in net interest expense/
(income)............................................. (.) . — — — — — — Total amount recognised in
other comprehensive income..... (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) . (.) (v) Net defined benefit obligation (iii) Changes in the defined
benefit obligation
Opening defined benefit
obligation................................................... ,. ,. . . . . . . Current service cost.......................... . . . . . . . . Past service cost................................. . . — — (.) — — — Interest expense.................................. . . . . . . . . Rupees crores
Particulars Discount rate (%).......................................................................................................................................................................................................... .-. .-. Attrition rate (%)........................................................................................................................................................................................................... .-. .-. Cost inflation (%)........................................................................................................................................................................................................... .-. .-. (vi) Actuarial assumptions Remeasurements (gains)/ losses
arising from changes in:
– demographic assumptions. (.) . (.) (.) . (.) — — – financial assumptions........... . (.) . . . (.) . (.) – experience adjustments..... (.) . (.) . (.) . . (.) Benefits paid........................................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Liability transferred on account
of employees transferred.............. — . — — — — — — Business combination....................... — . — . — . — — (vii) Quantitative sensitivity analysis for impact of significant assumptions on defined benefit obligation are as below:
One percentage point increase in discount rate ................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) One percentage point decrease in discount rate ................................................................................................................................. . . One percentage point increase in salary growth rate........................................................................................................................ . . One percentage point decrease in salary growth rate....................................................................................................................... (.) (.) — One percentage point increase in attrition rate...................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) — One percentage point decrease in attrition rate.................................................................................................................................... . . One percentage point increase in medical inflation rate ................................................................................................................ . . One percentage point decrease in medical inflation rate .............................................................................................................. (.) (.) Add/(less): Change in plan on
account of common control
de-merger................................................. (.) — . — — — — Disposal of subsidiaries................... — (.) (.) — — — — Foreign exchange translation
difference.................................................. (.) . (.) (.) — — — — Closing defined benefit
obligation................................................... ,. ,. . . . . . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Employee Benefits (Continued) . Employee stock option plan (Continued)
Rupees crores Particulars Average share price on the date of exercise of the options are as under Upto year................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . 01st April, to 21st March, ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - years.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Information in respect of options outstanding as at March, - years.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Date of exercise (viii) Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation
Time periods Weighted
average share
price (Rs.)
,. st years and above..............................................................................................................................................................................................................
,.
,. Cost inflation includes an estimate of medical inflation and future salary increases taking in to account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other
relevant factors such as supply and demand in the employment market. Range of exercise price Number of
options Weighted
average
remaining life The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is . to . years (: . to . years). Rs. .*............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,, . years The Group expects to contribute Rs. . crores to the Gratuity fund for the year ending 31st March, . Rs. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,, . years No. of years
vesting Fair value per
options 25th May, ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. years Rs. . 09th November, .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. years Rs. . 09th November, .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. years Rs. . 13th February, ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. years Rs. . (d) Trust-managed Provident fund Particulars
(i) (ii) Rupees crores Defined benefit obligation..................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Fair value of plan assets........................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Surplus/(Deficit)............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ — (.) Net defined benefit obligation Actuarial assumptions
Discount rate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. .% .% Average remaining tenure of investment portfolio (years)........................................................................................................................... . . Guaranteed rate of return.................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Notes (i) The Company has recognised an obligation of Nil (: Rs. . crores) on account of interest rate guarantee through OCI. (ii) The plan assets have been primarily invested in government securities and corporate bonds. (iii) The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is . years (: . years). (iv) The Company expects to contribute Rs. . crores to the Provident fund for the year ending 31st March, . * adjusted for the effect of bonus The fair values of options granted during the year are as follows:
Grant Date The fair value has been calculated using the Black Scholes Options Pricing Model and the significant assumptions made in this regard are as
follows:
Grant date and vesting period May, ( years vesting) 09th November, ( years
vesting) 09th November, ( years
vesting) 13th February, ( years
vesting) Risk free interest rate .% .% .% .% Expected life years years years years Expected volatility .% .% .% .% Expected dividend yield .% .% .% .% . . . . th (e)	Group’s contribution (in respect of companies where applicable) for Provident Fund and Superannuation Fund aggregating Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores) has been recognised in profit or loss under ‘Employee Benefits Expense’.
. Employee stock option plan The Company has setup Mahindra & Mahindra Employees Stock Option Trust (M&M ESOP Trust) and allotted certain ordinary shares which it holds
for the benefit of the employees and issues them to the eligible employees as per the recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee (NRC). Mahindra and Mahindra Limited Employees Stock Option Scheme – (“ Scheme”): The Company has granted options at an exercise price of Rs . which vests in to instalments ranging from to months from the date of
grant. The exercise period of the options ranges from year to years from the date of vesting. Number of vested options exercisable is subject to a
minimum of or number of options vested, whichever is lower.
Summary of stock options Exercise Price (Rs.)
Stock Price (Rs.) Stock options granted to employees are accounted in accordance with the requirements of IND AS - Share based payments. Consequently, share
based payment expense recognised by the Company in profit or loss after adjusting for reversals on account of options forfeited amounted to
Rs. . crores for the year ended 31st March, (: Rs. . crores) and included in salaries, wages and bonus, etc. No. of stock
Weighted
options average exercise
price (Rs.) Total Share based payment expense recognised in profit or loss by the Company and its subsidiaries is as under: ,, . Particulars Options granted during the year ................................................................................................................................................................................... ,, . Options forfeited/lapsed during the year ................................................................................................................................................................ ,, . Options exercised during the year ............................................................................................................................................................................... ,, . Options outstanding on 31st March, ................................................................................................................................................................ ,, . Options vested but not exercised on 31st March, ................................................................................................................................ ,, . Options outstanding on April, ......................................................................................................................................................................
st Rupees crores Equity settled share based payment........................................................................................................................................................................... . . Cash settled share based payment................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Capital management . Financial instruments (Continued) The Group’s capital management strategy is to effectively determine, raise and deploy capital so as to create value for its shareholders. The same is done
through a mix of either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term /long term debt as may be appropriate. The Group determines the amount of capital required on the basis of its product, capital expenditure, operations and strategic investment plans. The
same is funded through a combination of capital sources be it either equity and/or preference and/or convertible and/or combination of short term/long
term debt as may be appropriate.
The capital structure is monitored on the basis of net debt to equity and maturity profile of overall debt portfolio of the Group. The retail loan finance business of the companies in financial service business is subject to the capital adequacy requirements of the Reserve Bank
of India (RBI) and National Housing Bank (NHB). Under capital adequacy guidelines, these companies are required to maintain a capital adequacy ratio
consisting of Tier I and Tier II Capital. The total of Tier II Capital at any point of time, shall not exceed percent of Tier I Capital. The Group companies
in the financial services business have complied with all regulatory requirements related to regulatory capital and capital adequacy ratios as prescribed
by RBI and NHB.
Net Debt and Equity other than financial services segment is given in the table below:
Rupees crores
Total Equity............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Details of foreign currency forward contracts and options outstanding at the end of reporting period
Outstanding Contracts Rupees crores Notional
value (#) Carrying amount of
hedging instrument
included in Other Financial
Assets / (Liabilities) Notional
value (#) Carrying amount of
hedging instrument included
in Other Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) Buy currency
Maturing in + years ,. ,. — JPY/INR ................................................... . (.) . (.) — USD/INR .................................................. . (.) — — Maturing less than year Net Debt
Short term debt....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Long term debt......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Gross Debt................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Current investments............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Cash and Bank Balances.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Net Debt (,.) (,.) Total Capital deployed.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Less: . Financial instruments
Financial Risk Management Framework In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to a certain financial risks namely credit risk, interest risk, currency risk & liquidity risk. The Group’s
primary focus is to achieve better predictability of financial markets and seek to minimize potential adverse effects on its financial performance. The financial risks are managed in accordance with the risk management policy which has been approved by Board of Directors of the respective Group
companies. Board of Directors of financial services businesses have established Asset and Liability Management Committee (ALCO), which is responsible for developing
and monitoring risk management policies for their businesses. The financial services businesses are exposed to high credit risk given the unbanked rural
customer base and diminishing value of collateral. The credit risk is managed through credit norms established based on historical experience.
(a) Market Risk Management Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates etc. could affect the Group’s income or the
value of its holdings of financial instruments including cash flow. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk
exposures within acceptable parameters, while maximising the return.
(i) Hedge Accounting - Forwards & Options Contracts that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are accounted as per the hedge accounting requirements of Ind AS -Financial
Instruments, while other contracts are accounted as derivatives measured through profit or loss. Cash Flow Hedges Particulars Currency Risk The Group’s exposure to currency risk relates primarily to the Group’s operating activities including anticipated sales & purchase and borrowings
where the transactions are denominated in foreign currencies. — JPY/INR........................................................ . (.) — — — USD/INR...................................................... — — . (.) . (.) Sell currency
Maturing less than year
— USD/INR .................................................... ,. . — USD/JPY ................................................... . (.) — — — ZAR/INR .................................................... . . . (.) — EUR/INR .................................................... . . ,. (.) — CAD/INR .................................................... . * . (.) — AUD/INR .................................................... . . . . (.) (.) # Notional value of respective currency pair have been converted into presentation currency i.e. INR using year end closing exchange rate.
* denotes amount less than Rs. ,.
The Company also has outstanding forward exchange forward contracts and options that are not accounted as hedges. Details of the same
are as belowRupees crores
Outstanding Contracts Notional
value (#) Carrying amount of
hedging instrument
included in Other Financial
Assets / (Liabilities) Notional
value (#) Carrying amount of
hedging instrument included
in Other Financial Assets/
(Liabilities) . (.) . (.) Buy currency
Maturing in + years The Group’s foreign currency exposures are managed within approved parameters. The Group hedges its foreign currency risk mainly by way
of Forward Covers. Other derivative instruments may also be used if deemed appropriate. — — JPY/INR........................................................ . (.) . (.) — EUR/INR...................................................... . (.) . (.) — USD/INR...................................................... . . . (.) — EURO/TRY.................................................. . (.) — — The carrying amounts of the Group’s foreign currency exposure at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
Particulars US Dollar Euro JPY KRW Rupees crores
Others Total As at 31st March, Financial Assets ............................................................................. ,. . . . . ,. Financial Liabilities ...................................................................... ,. . ,. . . ,. Financial Assets ............................................................................. ,. ,. . — . ,. Financial Liabilities ...................................................................... ,. ,. ,. . . ,. As at March, st JPY/INR ................................................... Maturing less than year Sell currency
Maturing less than year
— USD/INR .................................................... . . . (.) — USD/JPY ................................................... . (.) . . (.)
(.)
# Notional value of respective currency pair have been converted into presentation currency i.e. INR using year end closing exchange rate. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Financial instruments (Continued) (ii) . Financial instruments (Continued) The movements in cash flow hedge reserve for instruments designated in a cash flow hedge are as follows:
Particulars Rupees crores Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges Interest
Rate Risk
hedges Total Exchange
Rate Risk
hedges Interest Rate
Risk hedges Total Balance at the beginning of the year................. (.) (.) (.) (.) — (.) (Gains)/Losses transferred to Profit or Loss on
occurrence of the forecast transaction.................... (.) — (.) . — . Interest Rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on exposure to interest rate for both derivative and non-derivative instruments
at the end of reporting period. For floating rate liabilities, analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the end of the
reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings
affected, after the impact of hedge accounting. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the
impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Year ended 31st March, ................................................................................... Change in fair value of effective portion of
cash flow hedges................................................................ . . . . (.) (.) Total............................................................................................ (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Deferred tax on the above.......................................... . (.) . (.) . (.) Balance at the end of the year.......................... (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Add: Share of associates/joint ventures............... . — . (.) — (.) Deferred tax on share of associates /joint
ventures.................................................................................... . — . . — . Add /(Less): Non-controlling interest...................... (.) — (.) . — . Less: Disposal of subsidiary........................................ — — — (.) — (.) Total............................................................................................ (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) Year ended 31st March, ................................................................................... (b) (iii) Sensitivity Analysis Foreign Currency Sensitivity The following table demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in major exchange rates, with all other variables held constant.
Rupees crores
Particulars Currency Change in rate Year ended 31st March, ....................................................................................... USD/INR Year ended 31st March, ....................................................................................... Effect on
Profit Before
Tax Effect on pretax equity* +% . — USD/JPY +% . — EUR/INR +% . — USD/INR +% . (.) USD/JPY +% . — EUR/INR +% . — * includes items directly accounted in reserves. The sensitivity analysis is unrepresentative of the inherent foreign exchange risk because the exposure at the end of the reporting period does
not reflect the exposure during the year. Currency Increase /
decrease in
basis points Effect on
profit before
tax Effect on pretax equity INR + bps (.) — EUR + bps (.) — INR + bps (.) — EUR + bps (.) — Credit Risk Management Credit Risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group usually
deals with creditworthy counterparties and obtain sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from
defaults. The exposure is continuously monitored. (i) Financial Guarantees 
In addition, the Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to financial guarantees given to banks. The Group’s maximum exposure in this respect
is the maximum amount the Group could have to pay if the guarantee is called on. The amount recognised in Balance Sheet as liabilities and
maximum exposure details are as given below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Of the above:
Balance relating to continuing hedges............... (ii) Maximum exposure....................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Amount recognised as liability ........................................................................................................................................................................... . . Trade Receivables The Group applies the simplified approach to provide for expected credit losses prescribed by Ind AS , which permits the use of the lifetime
expected loss provision for all trade receivables. The Group has computed expected credit losses based on a provision matrix which uses
historical credit loss experience of the Group. Forward-looking information (including macroeconomic information) has been incorporated into
the determination of expected credit losses. Reconciliation of loss allowance for Trade Receivables:
Rupees crores
Particulars Balance as at beginning of the year......................................................................................................................................................... . . Additions during the year........................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Amounts written off during the year............................................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) Impairment losses reversed/written back.................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Foreign exchange translation difference...................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) On account of disposal of subsidiaries.......................................................................................................................................................... (.) (.) Balance as at end of the year........................................................................................................................................................................ . . The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of Financial Guarantee contracts are disclosed in note (b) (i).
In respect of other financial assets, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period is the carrying amount of each
class of financial assets. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Financial instruments (Continued) . Financial instruments (Continued)
Estimation Technique (iii) Credit risk related to financial services business Financial services business has a comprehensive framework for monitoring credit quality of its Retail and other loans based on days past due
monitoring. Repayment by individual customers and portfolio is tracked regularly and required steps for recovery is taken through follow ups
and legal recourse. The following tables set out information about credit quality of loan assets measured at amortised cost: Retail Loans Rupees crores Particulars ,. ,. ,. ,. Gross carrying value of Retail and SME loan assets
Neither Past due nor impaired............................................................................................................................................................................
Past due but not impaired days past due..............................................................................................................................................................................................
- days past due...................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Impaired (more than days).............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total Gross carrying value as at reporting date .......................................................................................................................... ,,. ,. Trade Advances Rupees crores Particulars The financial services business has applied the following estimation technique in its ECL model: “Probability of Default” (PD) is an estimate of likelihood or risk of default occurring over a particular time horizon. The measurement of risk of
defaults is computed on homogenous portfolios, generally by nature of loans, tenors, underlying collateral, geographies and borrower profiles. The
default risk is assessed using PD (probability of default) derived from past behavioural trends of default across the identified homogenous portfolios.
These past trends factor in the past customer behavioural trends, credit transition probabilities and macroeconomic conditions. The assessed PDs
are then aligned considering future economic conditions that are determined to have a bearing on ECL. –	Loss given default is calculated based on discounted actual cash flow on past portfolio in default along with reversals. Forward Looking Information In calculating the expected credit loss rates, the financial services business considers historical loss rates on portfolio over a period which covers
most external factors like drought, government and policy changes etc and these historical PDs are converted into forward looking PDs considering
macro-economic variables like agricultural, GDP/Government consumption related parameters.
Assessment of significant increase in credit risk When determining whether the risk of default has increased significantly since initial recognition, the financial services business considers both
quantitative and qualitative information and analysis based on the business’s historical experience, including forward-looking information. The
financial services business considers reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost and effort. The
financial services business’s accounting policy is not to use the practical expedient that the financial assets with ‘low’ credit risk at the reporting
date are deemed not to have had a significant increase in credit risk. As a result the financial services business monitors all financial assets and
loan commitments that are subject to impairment for significant increase in credit risk. Definition of default Less than days past due................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. - days past due................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Since financial services business portfolio predominantly includes retail loan portfolio with around million loan accounts making it difficult to
define default at an individual loan account, it has considered days past due as the event of default. The same is also in line with the regulator’s
definition of default of days past due. Impaired (more than days)............................................................................................................................................................................. . . Policy for write off of Loan Assets Total Gross carrying value as at reporting date ......................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Gross carrying amount of trade advances 
Inputs considered in the ECL model 
In assessing the impairment of loans assets under Expected Credit Loss (ECL) Model, the loan assets have been segmented into three stages. The
three stages reflect the general pattern of credit deterioration of a financial instrument. The differences in accounting between stages, relate to
the recognition of expected credit losses and the calculation and presentation of interest revenue. The financial services business categorises loan assets (except trade advances) into stages based on the days past due status: — Stage : - days past due — Stage : - days past due — Stage : More than days The financial services business categorises trade advances into stages primarily based on the days past due status: — Stage : - days past due — Stage : - days past due — Stage : More than days Assumptions considered in the ECL model The financial services business has made the following assumptions in the ECL Model: — “Loss given default” (LGD) is common for all three Stages and is based on loss in past portfolio. Actual cash flows are discounted at loan
EIR rate for arriving loss rate. — “Probability of Default” (PD) is applied on Stage and Stage on portfolio basis and for Stage PD at %. The financial services business considers a financial asset to be in “default” and therefore Stage (credit impaired) for ECL calculations when the
borrower becomes days past due on its contractual payments. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off when there is no realistic prospect of further recovery. This is generally the case when
the financial services business determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to
repay the amounts subject to the write- off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities under the
recovery procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment loss The expected credit loss allowance provision is determined as follows:
Rupees crores
Particulars Stage- Stage- Stage- Total Gross Balance as at 31st March, ...................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,,. Expected credit loss rate .................................................................................................... .% .% .% Carrying amount as at 31st March, (net of impairment
provision)........................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,,. Gross Balance as at 31st March, ...................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Expected credit loss rate .................................................................................................... .% .% .% Carrying amount as at 31st March, (net of impairment
provision) ......................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Financial instruments (Continued) . Financial instruments (Continued) Level of Assessment - Aggregation Criteria Concentration of Credit Risk The financial services business recognises the expected credit losses on a collective basis that takes into account comprehensive credit risk information and considers the economic and risk characteristics, pricing range and sector concentration. Reconciliation of loss allowance provision for Retail and SME loans Financial services business’s loan portfolio is predominantly to finance retail automobile and housing loans. The financial services business manages
concentration of risk primarily by geographical region in India. The following table shows the geographical concentrations of financial loans as at
year end: Rupees crores Rupees crores Particulars Stage- Stage- Stage- Total Balance as at 1st April, ............................................................................................ . . ,. ,. — Transferred to Stage-......................................................................................................... . (.) (.) — Concentration by Geographical region: — Transferred to Stage-......................................................................................................... (.) . (.) — — Transferred to Stage-......................................................................................................... (.) (.) . Loans that have been derecognised during the year........................................... (.) (.) New loans originated during the year............................................................................. . Write-offs.............................................................................................................................................. ,,. ,. North ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. — East ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. (.) (,.) West .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. . . . South ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. (.) (.) (.) (.) Total Loans .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,,. ,. Net remeasurement of loss allowance........................................................................... (.) . ,. ,. Balance as at March, ..................................................................................... . . ,. ,. st Rupees crores
Particulars Stage- Stage- Stage- Total Balance as at 1st April, ............................................................................................ . ,. ,. ,. — Transferred to Stage-......................................................................................................... . (.) (.) — — Transferred to Stage-......................................................................................................... . (.) (.) — — Transferred to Stage-......................................................................................................... . (.) . — Loans that have been derecognised during the year........................................... (.) (.) (.) (,.) New loans originated during the year............................................................................. . . . . Write-offs.............................................................................................................................................. (.) (.) (.) Net remeasurement of loss allowance........................................................................... (.) (.) Balance as at 31st March, ..................................................................................... . . Narrative Description of Collateral Collateral primarily include vehicles purchased by retail loan customers, residential property in case of housing loan and machinery & property in
case of SME customers. The financial investments are secured by way of a first ranking pari-passu and charge created by way of hypothecation on
the receivables of the other company. Gross value of total secured loans to value of collateral
Loan To Value (LTV) Rupees crores
Gross value of secured loans
,. ,. (.) - % coverage............................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. . - % coverage......................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. Above % coverage..................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,,. ,. Rupees crores Loss allowance provision......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Impairment loss on financial services receivable for the year ended 31st March, recognised in profit or loss of Rs. ,. crores
(: Rs. ,. crores) includes bad debts and write offs of Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores), provision for expected credit
loss of Rs. . crores (: reversal of provision of Rs. ,. crores) and reversal of provision for loan commitments of Rs. . crores
(: provision of Rs. . crores). ‘ months ECL’ and ‘lifetime ECL not credit impaired’ are collectively assessed. ‘Lifetime ECL credit impaired’ are individually assessed.
Significant changes in the gross carrying value that contributed to change in loss allowance The maximum exposure to credit risk of loans is their carrying amount. The maximum exposure is before considering the effect of mitigation
through collateral. Upto % coverage........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Maximum Exposure to credit Risk Particulars Loan which are written off continue to be subject of enforcement activity. Carrying Value ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Trade advances Particulars The financial services business mostly provides loans to retail individual customers in Rural and Semi urban area which are of small ticket size.
Change in any single customer repayment will not impact significantly to provisioning. All customers are being monitored based on past due status
of outstanding loan and corrective actions are taken accordingly to limit the financial services businesses risk. Quantitative Information of Collateral - Credit Impaired assets (Collateral Coverage - Value of collateral available to mitigate the credit exposure) Loan To Value (LTV) Rupees crores
Gross Value of loans in stage Upto % coverage........................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . - % coverage............................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . - % coverage......................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Above % coverage..................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. Less than Year - Years Years to Years As at 31st March, Interest rate & currency swaps................................................................................................................................ — . — Foreign exchange forward contracts................................................................................................................... . . — Commodity futures...........................................................................................................................................................
Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interests..............................................................................
Total............................................................................................................................................................................................
As at 31st March, Interest rate & currency swaps................................................................................................................................
Foreign exchange forward contracts...................................................................................................................
Commodity futures...........................................................................................................................................................
Gross obligation to acquire non-controlling interests.............................................................................. .
—
. —
—
. —
.
. .
.
.
. .
.
—
— —
—
—
. Total............................................................................................................................................................................................. . . . Fair Value Disclosures Particulars Rupees crores Financial Instruments regularly measured using fair value - recurring items The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. (i) Maturity profile of derivative financial liabilities (d) (ii) . Financial Instruments (Continued) The amounts included above for financial guarantee contracts are the maximum amounts the Group could be forced to settle under the
arrangement for the full guaranteed amount if that amount is claimed by the counterparty to the guarantee. Based on expectations at
the end of the reporting period, the Group considers that it is more likely than not that such an amount will not be payable under the
arrangement. Interest rates to
discount future
cash flow, financial
projections ,. For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The discounted cash
flow method used to capture the present value of the
expected future economic benefits to be derived from the
ownership of these investees. The key inputs includes, long
term revenue growth rates, balance sheets, statement of
profit and loss along with underlying assumptions. ,. Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow ,. . Level Total.................................................................................................................................................. . . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Non-current ,. . — Increase or decrease
in key assumptions will
result in increase or
decrease in valuation — — — Financial
Assets . . )	Investment in
preference shares ,. ,. — . Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................... Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange rates
at the end of the reporting period) and contract forward
rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of
various counter parties. Lease Liabilities (including interest)............................................................................ Discounted Cash Flow
and Interest rate — . Level — . — Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI Non-current . Interest rates to
discount future
cash flow, financial
projections — Financial Guarantees ........................................................................................................... For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The discounted cash
flow method used to capture the present value of the
expected future economic benefits to be derived from the
ownership of these investees. The key inputs includes, long
term revenue growth rates, balance sheets, statement of
profit and loss along with underlying assumptions. ,. — Income Approach Discounted Cash Flow ,. . . Level ,. ,. . ,. Trade payables............................................................................................................................ Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Non-current Long term borrowings - Interest ................................................................................. Financial
Assets ,. )	Investment in
debentures / bonds Unquoted — ,. — — ,. — — — Quoted market price ,. Long term borrowings - Principal ............................................................................... . Level Short term borrowings - Interest ............................................................................... . — Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL - Current — — — — ,. Quoted market price Short term borrowings - Principal ............................................................................. As at 31st March, . Level ,. . ,. Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI - Current ,. — ,. — . Total.................................................................................................................................................. — ,. . Quoted market price . . . Level ,. ,. . . Other Financial Liabilities................................................................................................... Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI Non-current Lease Liabilities (including interest)............................................................................ Financial
Assets — )	Investment in
debentures / bonds Quoted — — Any change (increase
/ decrease) in the
discount factor, financial
projections etc. would
entail corresponding
change in the valuation
of derivatives on interest
in subsidiaries, associates
and joint ventures. — — Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections — . For Comparable Companies Method / Comparable
Companies Quoted Multiples - compare the price for which
comparable companies are traded on the capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of balance sheet,
statement of profit and loss along with underlying
assumptions. ,. Comparable Companies
Method / Discounted
Cash-flow / Price of
recent transactions /
Comparable Companies
quoted multiples Trade payables .........................................................................................................................
Financial Guarantees ........................................................................................................... . Level ,. . ,. ,. Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL Non-current ,. ,. Financial
Assets ,. ,. )	Derivatives on
interest over
subsidiaries and joint
ventures — Long term borrowings - Interest................................................................................... — Long term borrowings - Principal................................................................................. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange rates
at the end of the reporting period) and contract forward
rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of
various counter parties. — Discounted Cash Flow
and Interest rate — — . Level — — . — ,. Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL / FVTOCI
- Current ,. Short term borrowings - Interest ............................................................................... )	Foreign currency
Financial
forwards, Interest rate Assets
swaps & commodity
derivatives Short term borrowings - Principal ............................................................................. As at 31st March, years
and above Years to Years Valuation technique(s) Key inputs (for level and level ) - Years Fair value
hierarchy Less than Year Fair value Particulars Significant
unobservable
input(s) for level hierarchy Rupees crores Relationship of
unobservable inputs
to fair value and
sensitivity Maturity profile of non-derivative financial liabilities Fair Value
Category (i) The following table details the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities with agreed repayment periods.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can
be required to pay. The table includes both interest and principal cash flows. Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities Liquidity risk management Particulars (c) Rupees crores . Financial instruments (Continued) Increase or decrease
in key assumptions will
result in increase or
decrease in valuation MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Non-current Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL - Current Financial
Assets )	Investment in
commercial paper Financial
Liabilities Financial
Liabilities Financial
Liabilities )	Foreign currency
forwards and
options, Interest rate
swaps & commodity
derivatives )	Gross obligation
to acquire noncontrolling interest )	Compulsory
convertible
preference shares )	Investment in
Financial
certificate of deposits Assets Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities Particulars Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL - Noncurrent Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL - Current Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL - Noncurrent Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL - Current ,. — . . . . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL - Current
Financial
Instruments
measured at
FVTPL - Noncurrent ,. . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL - Current
Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI - Current . — Level . Level . Level . Level . Level . Level ,. Level ,. Level . Level . Level Fair value
hierarchy . Level ,. Level . Level ,. Level Fair value . ,. . ,. . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI - Current Fair Value
Category . Financial instruments (Continued) Financial
Assets )	Investment in
alternate investment
fund Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI - Current
Financial
Assets — Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTOCI Non-current )	Investment in
Financial
government securities Assets
- Quoted )	Investment in mutual
funds-Quoted — Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Non-current . Level — — — Income Approach
- Discounted Cash
Flow/ Market Multiple
approach Comparable Companies
Method / Discounted
Cash-flow / Price of
recent transactions /
Comparable Companies
quoted multiples Foreign currency
forwards, Interest rate
swaps & commodity
derivatives - Discounted
Cash Flow and Interest
rate
Options - Black Scholes
valuation model Discounted Cash Flow
and Interest rate Discounted Cash Flow
and Interest rate For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The discounted cash
flow method used to capture the present value of the
expected future economic benefits to be derived from the
ownership of these investees. The key inputs includes, long
term revenue growth rates, balance sheets, statement of
profit and loss along with underlying assumptions.
For Market Multiple approach - In this approach fair value
is derived based on market multiples like Revenue multiple,
etc. For Comparable Companies Method / Comparable
Companies Quoted Multiples - compare the price for which
comparable companies are traded on the capital market.
For Discounted Cash Flow - Companies Financial
projections. These include forecasts of balance sheet,
statement of profit and loss along with underlying
assumptions. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange rates
at the end of the reporting period) and contract forward
rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of
various counter parties.
Strike rate, spot rate, time to maturity, volatility and risk
free interest rate. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange rates
at the end of the reporting period) and contract forward
rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of
various counter parties. Future cash flows are estimated based on forward
exchange rates (from observable forward exchange rates
at the end of the reporting period) and contract forward
rates, discounted at a rate that reflects the credit risk of
various counter parties. Valuation technique(s) Key inputs (for level and level ) Net asset value Net asset value Quoted market price Quoted market price Quoted market price Discounted Cash Flow
approach For Discounted Cash Flow approach - The discounted cash
flow method used to capture the present value of the
expected future economic benefits to be derived from
the ownership of these investees. The key inputs includes,
long term revenue growth rates, long term pre tax
operating profit margin, WACC, Discount for lack market for
respective equity instrument
For Market Multiple approach - In this approach fair value
is derived based on market multiples like PE multiple,
Enterprise value (EV) multiple, Revenue Multiple, etc. — — — Financial
Assets . Financial
instrument
measured at
FVTPL Non-current Quoted bid price in
active market . Level Discounted Cash Flow/
Market Multiple
approach Quoted bid price in
active market . Level . Level Quoted bid price in
active market . Level )	Investments in
Infrastructure
Investment Trust Quoted . ,. . . Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTOCI Non-current Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTPL Non-current Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTOCI - Current Financial
instrument
designated at
FVTOCI Non-current Financial
Assets Valuation technique(s) Key inputs (for level and level ) )	Investment in
equity instruments Unquoted Fair value
hierarchy Financial
Assets Fair value )	Investment in equity
instruments - Quoted Fair Value
Category Financial
assets/
financial
liabilities Particulars . Financial Instruments (Continued) Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections
Market multiples
used for
benchmarking. Interest rates to
discount future
cashflows, financial
projections — — — Significant
unobservable
input(s) for level hierarchy — — — — — Financial projections
including terminal
growth rate,
operating margins,
etc and discount
rates to discount
future cash flows. — — — Significant
unobservable
input(s) for level hierarchy Increase or decrease
in key assumptions,
multiples will result in
increase or decrease in
valuation. Any change (increase
/ decrease) in the
discount factor, financial
projections etc. would
entail corresponding
change in the valuation
of gross obligation to
acquire non-controlling
interest — — — Relationship of
unobservable inputs
to fair value and
sensitivity Rupees crores — — — — — Increase or decrease
in key assumptions,
multiples will result in
increase or decrease in
valuation. — — — Relationship of
unobservable inputs
to fair value and
sensitivity Rupees crores CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Financial Instruments (Continued) . Financial instruments (Continued) Reconciliation of Level fair value measurements of financial instruments measured at fair value
Rupees crores
Particulars Unquoted
Equity
investment Investment in Derivatives on
debentures / interest over
bonds /
Subsidiaries
Preference
and joint
shares etc ventures (Net) Compulsorily
convertible
preference
shares . . . (.) a)	in profit/(loss)..................................................................... (.) . (.) (.) — b)	in other comprehensive income............................ . — — — — a)	Purchases.............................................................................. . . — — — b)	Issued....................................................................................... — — — (,.) — c)	Sale / Redemption.......................................................... — (.) — — — Exercise of put option ............................................................ — — — — . Adjustment for share of losses of joint ventures.... — (.) — — — Exchange differences................................................................. (.) — — — . Closing balance........................................................................... . . . (,.) (.) Year Ended March, Fair value of investments........................................................................................................................................................................................
(ii) . — . . Financial Instruments measured at amortised cost
Rupees crores (.) Carrying Value Fair value Fair value
Level Level Level As at March, st Financial assets
a) Investments............................................................... ,. ,. ,. . — b) Financial Services Receivable....................... ,,. ,,. — — ,,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — a) Investments............................................................... ,. ,. ,. . — b) Financial Services Receivable....................... ,. ,. — — ,. ,. ,. ,. ,. — Financial liabilities
Non-Current Borrowings...........................................
As at March, st Financial assets Financial liabilities
Non-Current Borrowings........................................... st . Investment in quoted and unquoted equity instruments: Particulars . Rupees crores (.) Purchases, issued, sale/redemption: There were no transfers between Level and Level during the year.
Valuation methodologies of financial instruments not measured at fair value Total gains or losses recognised:
a)	in profit/(loss)..................................................................... (.) (.) (.) — . b)	in other comprehensive income............................ (.) — — — — Purchases, issued, sale/disposal: Below are the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair values for the above financial instruments which are not recorded and
measured at fair value in the company’s financial statements. These fair values were calculated for disclosure purposes only.
Investments a)	Purchases.............................................................................. . — — — — The fair value of government and other securities that are quoted is based on the quoted market prices at the end of the reporting period.
For other unquoted investments, the fair value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using current market rates. b)	Issued....................................................................................... — — — (.) — Financial Services Receivable Sale / Disposal................................................................... (.) — — — . Exercise of put option.............................................................. — — . — — Adjustment for share of losses of joint ventures.... — . — — — Change in relationship during the year........................ . — — — — Reclassified as held for sale................................................. — — (.) — — The fair value of borrowings which have a quoted market price in an active market is based on its market price and for other borrowings the
fair value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using current interest rates. Exchange differences................................................................. (.) — — — . Except for the above, the carrying value of financial assets/liabilities measured at amortised cost represent reasonable estimate of fair value. Closing balance........................................................................... . . . (.) (.) c) Equity Investments designated at FVTOCI
Particulars Total gains or losses recognised: Opening balance........................................................................ Gross
obligation to
acquire noncontrolling
interest Year Ended 31st March, Opening balance........................................................................ The fair values of financial services receivables are calculated using a portfolio-based approach, grouping loans as far as possible into
homogenous groups based on similar characteristics. The fair value is then extrapolated to the portfolio using discounted cash flow models
that incorporate interest rate estimates considering all significant characteristics of the loans. This fair value is then reduced by impairment
allowance which is already calculated incorporating probability of defaults and loss given defaults to arrive at fair value net of risk.
Non-Current Borrowings MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership
(a) . Significant acquisitions and changes in ownership (Continued) Acquisition of Subsidiaries
(i) (ii) Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited During the year ended 31st March, , Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional .% of voting shares of Mahindra
Aerospace Private Limited (MAPL). Consequent to this investment, the shareholding and voting rights of the Company in MAPL increased from
.% to % and the status of MAPL changed from a joint venture to a subsidiary effective 29th March, . The goodwill on acquisition was accounted on the basis of provisional fair values of assets and liabilities. During the year ended 31st March, , the group has determined the acquistion-date fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and
consequently, the net change of Rs. . crores as compared to provisional fair values of assets and liabilities has been adjusted in goodwill
in accordance with Ind AS -’Business Combinations’. The consideration transferred and goodwill on acquisition is as below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Purchase consideration...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Fair value of previously held interest...................................................................................................................................................................................................... .
. Less: Fair value of net assets/(liabilities) acquired......................................................................................................................................................................... . Goodwill on acquisition.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the above business combination are as under:
Rupees crores
Particulars (ii) Property, plant and equipment..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Land................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . Intangible assets..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Cash and cash equivalents.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . Customer relationship......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . Other current and non-current assets/(liabilities), net................................................................................................................................................................ . Borrowings.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (.) Deferred tax assets/(liabilities), net.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... (.) Fair value of net asset/(liabilities) acquired............................................................................................................................................................................... . M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited During the year ended March, , Mahindra & Mahindra Limited (the Company) acquired additional .% of voting shares of M.I.T.R.A
Agro Equipments Private Limited (MITRA). Consequent to this investment, the shareholding and voting rights of the Company in MITRA increased
from .% to % and the status of MITRA changed from a joint venture to a subsidiary.
st The goodwill on acquisition was accounted on the basis of provisional fair values of assets and liabilities. During the year ended 31st March, , the group has determined the acquistion-date fair value of assets and liabilities acquired and
consequently, the net change of Rs. . crores as compared to provisional fair values of assets and liabilities has been adjusted in goodwill
in accordance with Ind AS -’Business Combinations’. (iii) Marvel Solren Private Limited During the year, Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited (MSEPL) acquired % stake in Marvel Solren Private Limited (MSPL) for a
consideration of Rs. . crores. Post this acquisition, financials of MSPL have been consolidated by the Group from 12th December, on
a line-by-line basis.
(b) Reduction in shareholding resulting in loss of control (i) Mahindra Teqo Private Limited During the year, Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (MTPL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited (MSEPL) and
of the Company issued additional equity shares representing % ownership interest to an external investor along with certain substantive
rights consequent to which MTPL is accounted as a joint venture of MSEPL and the Company w.e.f. 29th September, . Further, in accordance
with Ind AS -’Consolidated Financial Statements’, the retained interest in MTPL has been remeasured at fair value and gain recognised in the
Consolidated statement of profit and loss. Zoomcar, Inc.  uring the year, Zoomcar Inc, a joint venture of the Company, merged with Innovative International Acquisition Corp. (IOAC) and Others.
D
Pursuant to the merger, IOAC has been renamed as Zoomcar Holdings, Inc. The Group received ,, shares (including the earnout shares)
representing .% shareholding of Zoomcar Holdings, Inc. on a fully diluted basis.
Consequent to the merger, Zoomcar, Inc. has ceased to be a joint venture of the Company and investment in IOAC is classified as financial asset
measured at FVTOCI.
(iii)	During the year, the Group has sold investments in CIE Automotive India Limited, Medwell Ventures Private Limited, Resson Aerospace Corporation
(dissolved), Emergent Solren Private Limited, Transtech Logistics Private Limited, Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (classified
as held for sale as at 31st March, ). Post stake sale, these entities have ceased to be associates/ joint ventures of the Company. Additionally,
Mahindra Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the Company, has sold .% stake in Mahindra Susten Private Limited.
.	Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) issued by Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) and Mahindra Last Mile Mobility
Limited (MLMML)
(a)	During the year ended 31st March, , the Company formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited (MEAL) to undertake
the four-wheel passenger electric business and transferred certain existing assets to MEAL for cash consideration of Rs. . crores. Further, in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement
entered with British International Investment Plc (BII), wherein the Company and BII each agreed to invest Rs. ,. crores in MEAL in tranches,
both the Company and BII have invested Rs. ,. crores each till 31st March, . The investment by the Company is in Equity shares of MEAL
whereas investment by BII is in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MEAL. The total investment by the Company in MEAL amounted
to Rs. ,. crores as at 31st March, (: Rs. ,. crores). During the year ended 31st March, , in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the amended and restated
Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement entered with British International Investment Plc (BII) and Jongsong Investments
Pte Ltd (“Temasek”) wherein the Temasek agreed to invest Rs. ,. crores in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MEAL in one
or more tranches, Temasek has invested Rs. . crores till 31st March, . Unless agreed to, in writing, for an early conversion, each CCPS is compulsorily and automatically convertible into such number of equity shares as
determined as per a pre-determined formula at the conversion date, as per terms and conditions of the agreement(s) entered between the Company,
BII and Temasek. Since the CCPS is convertible into variable number of equity shares of MEAL, it has been classified as financial liability at fair value
through profit or loss in the financial statements of MEAL and in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Further, in accordance with
the shareholders’ agreement, the Company shall take best efforts to provide BII and Temasek with a complete exit between 1st November, and
1st November, through certain exit options (or a combination thereof), as may be determined by the Company in its sole discretion. In case exit has not been provided to BII prior to 1st November, , BII shall have the right upto 31st October, to require full exit to be
provided by the Company or by its affiliates and/or a third party at the higher of fair market value and the amount invested by BII. In case exit has not been provided to Temasek prior to 1st November, Temasek shall have the right up to 31st October, to require full
exit to be provided by the Company by way of share swap if the fair market value of the Temasek interest is higher than the amount invested by it.
However, the Company shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to provide cash exit to Temasek at the higher of fair market value of the Temasek
interest and the amount invested by it. Further, if the Fair market value of the Temasek interest is lower than its investment amount, neither the
Company nor Temasek shall be obligated to undertake their respective obligations with respect to the Share swap.
(b)	During the year ended 31st March, , the Company formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited (MLMML) and transferred
identified assets and business pertaining to the Last Mile Mobility Business through Asset Transfer Agreement and Business Transfer Agreement for
cash consideration of Rs. . crores. The total investment by the Company in MLMML amounted to Rs. . crores at 31st March, . In accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions stipulated in the Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement entered with
International Finance Corporation (IFC) wherein IFC agreed to invest Rs. . crores in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MLMML
in one or more tranches, IFC has invested Rs. . crores till 31st March, . Further, in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions
stipulated in the amended and restated Securities Subscription Agreement and Shareholders’ Agreement entered with International Finance Corporation
(IFC) and India-Japan Fund (“IJF”) wherein the IJF agreed to invest Rs. . crores in Compulsory Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of MLMML in
one or more tranches, IJF has invested Rs. . crores till 31st March, . Unless agreed to, in writing, for an early conversion, each CCPS is compulsorily convertible into such number of equity shares as determined as per
a pre-determined formula at the conversion date, as per terms and conditions of the agreement(s) entered between the Company, IFC and IJF. Since
the CCPS is convertible into variable number of equity shares of MLMML, it has been classified as financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
in the financial statements of MLMML and in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Further, in accordance with the shareholders’
agreement, the Company and MLMML shall take best efforts to provide IFC and IJF with a complete exit at fair value during the exit period, being the
period between 5th and 7th anniversary from the date of IFC’s first investment, through certain exit options as may be determined by the Company
in its sole discretion. If IFC continues to hold any equity security of MLMML after the expiry of the exit period, IFC shall have the right to require
MLMML to complete an initial public offering subject to favourable market conditions. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest
(a) . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (Continued) Details of the Group’s subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows: Name of the Subsidiary Name of the Subsidiary
Place of Proportion of ownership
Incorporation
interest*
and Place of
st
As at March,
Operation Place of Proportion of ownership
Incorporation
interest*
and Place of
st
As at March,
Operation Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited ESOP Trust............................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited............................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited.................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Finance CSR Foundation................................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited.................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% NBS International Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty. Limited........................................................................................................................................... Australia .% .% Mahindra Europe s.r.l. ............................................................................................................................................................................................ Italy .% .% Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa (Proprietary) Limited........................................................................................................ South Africa .% .% Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited Employee Welfare Trust........................................................................................ India .% .% Automobili Pininfarina GmbH............................................................................................................................................................................. Germany .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Employees' Stock Option Trust...................................................... India .% .% Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc. .......................................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited........................................................................................................................................................................ Sri Lanka .% .% Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited **................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited..................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited (w.e.f 29th May, ) $$................................................................................................ India .% — Mahindra Racing UK Limited.............................................................................................................................................................................. U.K. .% .% Mahindra Infrastructure Developers Limited.......................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Gromax Agri Equipment Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra World City (Maharashtra) Limited............................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Trringo.com Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Knowledge Township Limited............................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra USA Inc....................................................................................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Industrial Township (Maharashtra) Limited.............................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd $.................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd.................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Anthurium Developers Limited......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Ryono Factory Co., Ltd............................................................................................................................................................................................ Japan .% .% Mahindra Water Utilities Limited..................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Ryono Engineering Co., Ltd.................................................................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Rathna Bhoomi Enterprises Private Limited........................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Dia Computer Service Co., Ltd. #..................................................................................................................................................................... Japan — .% Ryono Asset Management Co., Ltd................................................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Deep Mangal Developers Private Limited................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L. (Liquidated w.e.f. 28th March, )............................................................................................ Mexico — .% Moonshine Construction Private Limited.................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra do Brasil Sanayi Industrial Ltda. ............................................................................................................................................. Brazil .% .% Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited.................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Erkunt Traktor Sanayi Anonim Şirketi......................................................................................................................................................... Turkey .% .% Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited............................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi............................................................................................................................................................................ Turkey .% .% Sampo Rosenlew Oy................................................................................................................................................................................................ Finland .% .% Mahindra Hotels & Residences India Limited......................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Swaraj Engines Limited.......................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Gables Promoters Private Limited................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private Limited............................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Heritage Bird (M) Sdn Bhd................................................................................................................................................................................... Malaysia .% .% Mahindra Automotive North America Inc.................................................................................................................................................. U.S.A. .% .% Infinity Hospitality Group Company Limited............................................................................................................................................ Thailand .% .% Mahindra Vehicle Sales and Service Inc..................................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra North American Technical Center, Inc................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% MH Boutique Hospitality Limited @.............................................................................................................................................................. Thailand .% .% Mahindra Solarize Private Limited................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited.................................................................................................................................................................. Mauritius .% .% Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Covington S.a.r.l........................................................................................................................................................................................................... Luxembourg .% .% Kota Farm Services Limited @.......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Holiday Club Resorts Oy....................................................................................................................................................................................... Finland .% .% Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited...................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt ....................................................................................................................................................... Finland .% .% Mahindra HZPC Private Limited....................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Ownership Services Sweden Ab....................................................................................................................................................................... Sweden .% .% Mahindra Fruits Private Limited....................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Are Villa Ab................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Sweden .% .% Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited........................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Fifth Gear Ventures Limited................................................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (Continued) . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (Continued)
Place of Proportion of ownership
Incorporation
interest*
and Place of
st
As at March,
Operation Name of the Subsidiary Name of the Subsidiary Place of Proportion of ownership
Incorporation
interest*
and Place of
As at 31st March,
Operation Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre.............................................................................................................................................................................. Sweden .% .% Bristlecone GmbH...................................................................................................................................................................................................... Germany .% .% Holiday Club Sport and Spa Hotels AB...................................................................................................................................................... Sweden .% .% Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited............................................................................................................................................................ Singapore .% .% Holiday Club Resorts Rus LLC.......................................................................................................................................................................... Russia .% .% Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica Limited......................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L. ................................................................................................................................................... Spain .% .% Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing S.L. ..................................................................................................................................... Spain .% .% Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (upto 28th September, ) ^^^.......................................................................................... India — .% Holiday Club Canarias Resort Management S.L. ................................................................................................................................ Spain .% .% Emergent Solren Private Limited (upto 31st August, ) ^^^.............................................................................................. India — .% Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club SLU................................................................................................................................................ Spain .% .% Marvel Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 11th December, )....................................................................................................... India .% — Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari (w.e.f 1st April, ) ###............................................................................................................ Finland — — Mahindra Accelo Limited....................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Arabian Dreams Hotels Apartments LLC @............................................................................................................................................. U.A.E .% .% Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited...................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited Employee Stock Option Trust...................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Holidays & Resorts Harihareshwar Limited...................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Guestline Hospitality Management and Development Service Limited............................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra MiddleEast Electrical Steel Service Centre (FZC)........................................................................................................ U.A.E. .% .% Mahindra Logistics Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Lords Freight (India) Private Limited............................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private Limited............................................................................................................................................... India .% .% x Logistics Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia............................................................................................................................................................. Indonesia .% .% MLL Express Services Private Limited........................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Mahindra Defence Systems Limited.............................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% MLL Mobility Private Limited.............................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring FZ-LLC....................................................................................................................................... U.A.E. .% .% V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited ##................................................................................................................................................ India — .% Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordan, LLC.................................................................................................................................................... Jordan .% .% V-Link Automotive Services Private Limited ##................................................................................................................................... India — .% Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems Limited............................................................................................................................ India .% .% V-Link Freight Services Private Limited..................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited............................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% MLL Global Logistics Limited.............................................................................................................................................................................. U.K. .% .% Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% ZipZap Logistics Private Limited (w.e.f. December, ) ^............................................................................................. India .% — Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty Ltd........................................................................................................................................................ Australia .% .% Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings S.a.r.l. ................................................................................................................................ Luxembourg .% .% Bristlecone Worldwide, Inc (formerly known as Bristlecone Limited)................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Gipps Aero Pty Ltd (upto 30th November, ) ***......................................................................................................................... Australia — .% Bristlecone Consulting Limited......................................................................................................................................................................... Canada .% .% Airvan Flight Services Pty Ltd (upto 30th November, ) ***............................................................................................... Australia — .% Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd....................................................................................................................................................................... Malaysia .% .% GA8 Airvan Pty Ltd (upto 30th November, ) ***........................................................................................................................ Australia — .% Bristlecone International AG.............................................................................................................................................................................. Switzerland .% .% GA200 Pty Ltd (upto 30th November, ) ***.................................................................................................................................. Australia — .% Bristlecone UK Limited........................................................................................................................................................................................... U.K. .% .% Nomad TC Pty Ltd (upto 30th November, ) ***.......................................................................................................................... Australia — .% Bristlecone Inc. ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Airvan Pty Ltd (upto 30th November, ) ***........................................................................................................................... Australia — .% Bristlecone Middle East DMCC.......................................................................................................................................................................... U.A.E. .% .% Mahindra Airways Limited..................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Bristlecone India Limited....................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited.................................................................................................................................................... Mauritius .% .% nd MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (Continued)
Name of the Subsidiary . Disclosure of interest in Subsidiaries and interest of Non Controlling Interest (Continued)
Place of Proportion of ownership
Incorporation
interest*
and Place of
st
As at March,
Operation Mahindra Holdings Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra Overseas Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited................................................................................................... Mauritius .% .% Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions Private Limited.............................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra eMarket Limited................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% Mahindra Construction Company Limited................................................................................................................................................. India Officemartindia.com Limited............................................................................................................................................................................... Rupees crores
Sr.
No. Name of the Subsidiary Place of
Incorporation
and Place of
Operation Proportion of Ownership Profit / (Loss) allocated to
Interest and voting rights non controlling interest
held by non controlling
interests Accumulated non
Controlling Interest .% .% . ,. ,. ,. (a) Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited.................................................... (b) .% Individually Immaterial
Non Controlling Interest.................................. . . ,. ,. .% .% Total.............................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited @................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Waste To Energy
Solutions Limited) (upto 27th December, ) ^^............................................................................................................................ India — .% Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Telecom Energy
Management Services Private Limited)...................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% New Democratic Electoral Trust @............................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Sunrise Initiatives Trust......................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mumbai Mantra Media Limited.......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Marine Private Limited (upto 5th June, )................................................................................................................ India — .% Mahindra & Mahindra Benefit Trust.............................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust.................................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% * excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities / their holding companies but not allotted to employees. @	entities have been treated as subsidiaries even though the Group holds less than half of the voting power in these entities as it has unilateral
control over the investees due to other factors that give power like control over composition of board, management control etc.
$	In addition to JPY750 million Common Stock (which represents .% of the Common stock), the Company owns the entire JPY2250 million
“Class A” shares (shares with no voting rights); “Class A” shares have rights over dividend and liquidation on an equal basis with Common Stock. India Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited’s Principal Activity - Financing and leasing of automobiles, tractors, commercial vehicles, SMEs and
housing finance.
(c)	Summarised financial information in respect of each of the Group’s subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests is set out
below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts based on their consolidated financial statements.
Rupees crores
Particulars Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited-Consolidated Current Assets.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Non-Current Assets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Current Liabilities....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Non-Current Liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Equity Interest Attributable to the owners............................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Non-Controlling Interest........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . . Total income.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Expenses........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Share of profit of associates and joint ventures, (net)................................................................................................................................................... . . ^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from associate to subsidiary. ^^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to associate. Profit / (Loss) for the year.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ^^^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to joint venture. Profit / (Loss) attributable to the owners of the company......................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Profit / (Loss) attributable to the Non-Controlling Interest........................................................................................................................................ . (.) ### Entity has been merged with Holiday Club Resorts Oy. Opening Cash & Cash Equivalents................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . $$ Voting power in the company is different from the ownership interests. Closing Cash & Cash Equivalents.................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . ** shares are held by investor. *** Entity has been disposed off and ceased to be a Subsidiary. Net Cash inflow / (outflow)................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . (.) Dividends paid to non controlling interest............................................................................................................................................................................... . . # Entity has been merged with Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery co., Ltd. ## Entities have been merged with MLL Mobility Private Limited. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates
Interests in Joint Ventures: . Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates (Continued)
Interests in Associates: The Group’s interests in jointly controlled entities of the Group are:
Name of the Entity The Group’s interests in associates are:
Place of
Proportion of ownership
Incorporation and
interest*
Place of Operation
As at 31st March, Name of the Entity Place of
Proportion of ownership
Incorporation and
interest*
Place of Operation
As at 31st March, Tech Mahindra Limited.................................................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% PF Holdings B.V. ................................................................................................................................................................................................. Netherlands .% .% .% Shiga Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd. ........................................................................................................ Japan .% .% .% .% Kagawa Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd. ................................................................................................... Japan .% .% India .% .% Okanetsu Industry Co., Ltd. ....................................................................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited #....................................................................................... India .% .% Kitaiwate Ryono Co., Ltd. ............................................................................................................................................................................ Japan .% .% Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private Limited #................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Aizu Ryono Co., Ltd. (under liquidation).............................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited #.............................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Mahindra World City Developers Limited #..................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Joban Ryono Co., Ltd. .................................................................................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited #................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Fukuryo Kiki Hanbai Co., Ltd....................................................................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Mahindra Homes Private Limited #....................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Ibaraki Ryono Co., Ltd. ................................................................................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited.................................................................................................................... India .% .% Kotobuki Noki Co, Ltd. ................................................................................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited **.................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Honda Seisakusyo, Inc. .................................................................................................................................................................................. Japan .% .% Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited #...................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Yamaichi Honten Co., Ltd. ........................................................................................................................................................................... Japan .% .% Kiinteistö Oy Vierumäen Kaari (upto March, )........................................................................................................ Finland — .% Resson Aerospace Corporation # (Liquidated w.e.f 20th September, )............................................................. Canada — .% Tropiikin Rantasauna Oy............................................................................................................................................................................... Finland .% .% Kumsan Dokum Mazelmeri A.S. .............................................................................................................................................................. Turkey .% .% Transtech Logistics Private Limited (upto 20th December, )................................................................................... India — .% Classic Legends Private Limited #......................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Mahindra Finance USA, LLC......................................................................................................................................................................... U.S.A. .% .% Mahindra-BT Investment Company (Mauritius) Limited #...................................................................................................... Mauritius .% .% CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited)
(upto 24th May, ) #................................................................................................................................................................................ India — .% Mahindra Susten Private Limited #....................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% CIE Automotive S.A. #..................................................................................................................................................................................... Spain .% .% Emergent Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 1st September to 9th January, ) ^.................................... India — — Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (w.e.f. 29th September, ) ^ #.................................................................................. India .% — Mahindra Knowledge Park (Mohali) Limited.................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited (upto September, 27th April, ).................. India — .% Ample Parks And Logistics Private Limited (formerly known as AMIP Industrial Parks Private Limited) India .% .% Zoomcar Inc (upto 29th December, ) ^^................................................................................................................................. U.S.A. — .% Ample Parks Project Private Limited (formerly known as Interlayer Two Warehousing Private Ltd)
(w.e.f 4th September, )......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% — Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited............................................................................................................................. India .% .% New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited...................................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Ample Parks Project Private Limited (formerly known as Interlayer Three Warehousing Private Ltd)
(w.e.f 4th September, )......................................................................................................................................................................... India .% — Aquasail Distribution Company Private Limited........................................................................................................................... India .% .% Kiinteistö Oy Seniori-Saimaa...................................................................................................................................................................... Finland .% .% Great Rocksport Private Limited............................................................................................................................................................. India .% .% ZipZap Logistics Private Limited (upto December, )^........................................................................................ India — .% Renew Sunlight Energy Private Limited .......................................................................................................................................... India .% .% Sustainable Energy Infra Investment Managers Private Limited (w.e.f 9th June, ).................................. India .% — Green Energy Infra Project Managers Private Limited (w.e.f 11th July, )........................................................ India .% — Brainbees Solutions Limited (formerly known as Brainbees Solutions Private Limited) #............................ India .% .% Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited.............................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Carnot Technologies Private Limited #.............................................................................................................................................. India .% .% Sampo Algeria SpA............................................................................................................................................................................................ Algeria .% Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private Limited #............................................................................................................................... India Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited #........................................................................................................................................... st * excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities / their holding companies but not allotted to employees. #	Entities have been treated as Joint Ventures even though the Group holds more than half of the voting power in these entities as it does not have
unilateral control over the investee, primarily due to existence of agreements that give substantive rights to other investors.
** As per agreement with other shareholders, the economic interest of Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited is %. ^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to joint venture. ^^	Consequent to merger with Innovative International Acquisition Corp. (IOAC) and Others, Zoomcar, Inc. has ceased to be a joint venture of the
Company and investment in IOAC is classified as financial asset measured at FVTOCI. st MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates (Continued)
Name of the Entity . Investment in Joint Arrangements and Associates (Continued)
Place of
Proportion of ownership
Incorporation and
interest*
Place of Operation
As at 31st March, Rupees crores
Particulars Tech Mahindra Limited Consolidated PSL Media & Communications Limited................................................................................................................................................ India .% .% Income tax expense................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ . ,. The East India Company Group Limited BVI #............................................................................................................................... Singapore .% .% Profit /(Loss) for the year................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Medwell Ventures Private Limited (upto 19th April, )................................................................................................... India — .% Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) for the year............................................................................................................................................................ . . Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Waste To Energy
Solutions Limited) (w.e.f 28th December, ) ^^.................................................................................................................... India .% — Total Other Comprehensive Income for the year.............................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. The financial statements of the Associates are drawn upto 31st March, other than for CIE Automotive S.A. & The East India Company Group Limited
BVI where it is upto 31st December, . * excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities / their holding companies but not allotted to employees. #	Entities have been treated as Associate even though the Group holds less than % of the voting power in these entities as it has influence over
the entity due to the board representation.
^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from associate to subsidiary. ^^ During the year ended March , the Controlling status was changed from subsidiary to associate. All of the above associates/joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method in consolidated financial statements.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Group’s material associate is set out below:
Rupees crores
Particulars Tech Mahindra Limited Consolidated Cash and cash equivalents................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Other assets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Total current assets................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Total Non-current assets..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Current assets Current liabilities
Financial liabilities..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Other Liabilities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total current liabilities........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Total Non-current liabilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Non-controlling interest....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Revenue from Operations................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Interest Income........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . . Depreciation and amortisation........................................................................................................................................................................................................ ,. ,. Impairment of Goodwill and non-current assets................................................................................................................................................................ . . Interest Cost................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Tech Mahindra Limited’s Principal Activity - Information Technology (IT) and IT Enabled Services Reconciliation of the above summarised financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the associate recognised in the consolidated
financial statements:
Rupees crores
Particulars Tech Mahindra Limited Consolidated Closing Net assets..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Group’s share in %.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .% .% Group’s share (Rs)...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Goodwill............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. . . Carrying amount......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. Market Value.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. . Related party disclosures
(a) Names of related parties where transactions have taken place during the year: (i) Associates:
S. No. Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known as Mahindra
CIE Automotive Limited) Tech Mahindra Cerium Systems Sdn. Bhd. Tech Mahindra ICT Services (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Renew Sunlight Energy Private Limited Tech Mahindra (Beijing) IT Services Limited Tech Mahindra Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima Tech Mahindra Mexico Cloud Services, S.De R.L. De C.V Tech Mahindra Colombia S.A.S Tech Mahindra (Nigeria) Limited Tech Mahindra Network Services Belgium Tech Mahindra Limited PSL Media & Communications Limited Tech Mahindra (Nanjing) Co. Ltd Mahindra University Tech Mahindra Vietnam Company Limited PF Holdings B.V. Satyam Venture Engineering Services Private Limited Brainbees Solutions Limited (formerly known as Brainbees Solutions
Private Limited) Tech Mahindra Chile Spa Tech Mahindra Business Services Limited Tech Mahindra France Pininfarina S.P.A. Tech Mahindra Holdco Pty Limited Pininfarina Deutschland Gmbh Tech Mahindra South Africa (Pty) Limited Golde Wuhan Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra Servicos De Informatica S.A Mahindra Knowledge Park (Mohali) Limited Tech Mahindra Servicos Ltda Kiinteistö Oy Seniori-Saimaa Tech Mahindra (Shanghai) Co. Ltd Shiga Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra Cerium Private Limited Okanetsu Industry Co., Ltd MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Related party disclosures (Continued) . Related party disclosures (Continued) S. No. Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity Kitaiwate Ryono Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra Cerium Systems Inc Aizu Ryono Co., Ltd. (under liquidation) Tech Mahindra Communications Japan Co., Ltd Joban Ryono Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra Consulting Group Inc. Furies Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 14th June, )
Sampo Algeria SpA
Zoomcar India Private Limited (upto 29th December, ) Fukuryo Kiki Hanbai Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra De Mexico S.De R.L.De C.V Honda Seisakusyo, Inc. Tech Mahindra Defence Technologies Limited Ibaraki Ryono Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra Fintech Holdings Limited Yamaichi Honten Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra Gmbh Kagawa Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Sales Co., Ltd. Tech Mahindra It Services NL B.V. Sustainable Energy Infra Investment Managers Private
Limited (w.e.f. 9th June, ) Tech Mahindra Limited SPC Green Energy Infra Project Managers Private Limited
(w.e.f. 11th July, ) Tech Mahindra LLC Tropiikin Rantasauna Oy
Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited
Illuminate Hybren Private Limited (formerly known as Icarus
Hybren Private Limited) (w.e.f. 30th May, )
Hazel Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f. 2nd June, )
Gelos Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 14th June, )
Layer Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f. 2nd December, )
Jade Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f. 30th November, )
Kyros Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f. 30th November, )
Martial Solren Private Limited
Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private Limited
Migos Hybren Private Limited (w.e.f. 15th December, ) Astra Solren Private Limited (upto 9th January, )
Neo Solren Private Limited (upto 9th January, )
Mega Suryaurja Private Limited (upto 9th January, )
Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited (upto 9th January, )
Transtech Logistics Private Limited (upto 20th December, )
Aquasail Distribution Company Private Limited
Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (w.e.f. 29th September, )
Emergent Solren Private Limited (w.e.f. 1st September, )
(upto 9th January, ) Golde Pune Automotive India, Pvt Ltd. Tech Mahindra London Limited Mahindra Finance USA LLC Tech Mahindra Luxembourg S.A R.L. Tech Mahindra Credit Solutions Inc Tech Mahindra Network Services International Inc., Tech Mahindra Digital Pty Ltd Tech Mahindra Norway AS Tech Mahindra Technology Services LLC Tech Mahindra Products Services Singapore Pte. Limited Mahindra Educational Institutions Tech Mahindra Spain S.L. Medwell Ventures Private Limited (upto 19th April, ) Tech-Mahindra De Peru S.A.C. Tech-Mahindra S.A Kumsan Dokum Mazelmeri A.S. Tech-Mahindra Panama, S.A. Great Rocksport Private Limited Tech Mahindra (Americas) Inc. Ample Parks Project Private Limited (formerly known as Interlayer
Two Warehousing Pvt Ltd) (w.e.f 4th September, ) (iii) Key Management Personnel (KMP):
S. No. Name of KMP Designation Mr. Anand G. Mahindra Chairman Dr. Anish Shah Managing Director and CEO Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) Dr. Vishakha N. Desai Independent Director Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta Independent Director Mr. T. N. Manoharan Independent Director Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Independent Director Mrs. Shikha Sharma Independent Director Mr. C. P. Gurnani (upto 20th December, ) Non-Executive Non-Independent Director Tech Mahindra Technologies Inc. Ample Parks And Logistics Private Limited (formerly known as AMIP
Industrial Parks Private Limited) Ms. Nisaba Godrej Independent Director Tech Mahindra Sweden Ab Ample Parks Project Private Limited (formerly known as Interlayer
Three Warehousing Pvt Ltd) (w.e.f 4th September, ) Mr. Muthiah Murugappan Independent Director Mr. Vijay Kumar Sharma (upto 20th December, ) Nominee Director Tech Mahindra (Singapore) Pte Limited Tech Mahindra Foundation Tech-Mahindra Guatemala S.A Aurangabad Electricals, Ltd Tech Mahindra (Switzerland) SA Tech-Mahindra Bolivia S.R.L. Tech Mahindra (Thailand) Limited PT Tech Mahindra Indonesia Tech-Mahindra Ecuador S.A Resson Aerospace Corporation (upto 20th September, ) Tech Mahindra Arabia Limited Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited (formerly known as
Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited) (w.e.f. 28th December,
) Zipzap Logistics Private Limited (upto 21st December, ) Name of the entity S. No. Name of the entity Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited
Mahindra Homes Private Limited
Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited
Classic Legends Private Limited
Mahindra Manulife Investment Management Private Limited
Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private Limited
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited
(upto 27th April, ) Mahindra Susten Private Limited
Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private Limited
Carnot Technologies Private Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited
Mahindra World City Developers Limited
Megasolis Renewables Private Limited (formerly known as Mahindra
Renewables Private Limited) (upto 9th January, )
Mahindra Inframan Water Utilities Private Limited
Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited (ii)
S. No. Tech Mahindra Bahrain Ltd W.L.L (iv) Close member of KMP and entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP:
S. No. Close member of KMP S. No. Close member of KMP Mrs. Anuradha Mahindra Mrs. Vasundhara Modi Mrs. Radhika Nath Mrs. Veena Jejurikar Dr. T. N. Gajendran Mr. Murugappan Muthiah Murugappan S. No. Joint Ventures: Entities controlled/jointly controlled by KMP Araku Originals Private Limited Naandi Community Water Services Private Limited The Indian And Eastern Engineer Company Private Limited Goolestan Investments Private Limited Gotham Park Projects LLP (v)
S. No. Entity belonging to Promoter/Promoter Group holding % or more in the company:
Name of the Company
Prudential Management & Services Private Limited MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Related party disclosures (Continued) . Related party disclosures (Continued) (vi) Welfare Funds/Post-employment benefit plans:
S. No. (b) Name of the Funds S. No. Rupees crores Name of the Funds M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Gratuity Scheme M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff Provident Fund M&M Employees' Welfare Fund No. Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Superannuation Scheme Mahindra World School Education Trust Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Staff & Workmen's Superannuation
Scheme The related party transactions are as under: S.
No. Nature of Transactions . Deputation of personnel: Rupees crores
S.
No. . Nature of Transactions Services........................................................ Property, plant & equipment
and Intangible assets.......................... . Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP Entity
Welfare
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the Company Services........................................................ Property, plant and equipment.... ,. . — — — — ,. . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — Proceeds from liquidation / sale
of shares...................................................... Proceeds from capital
reduction/buyback of shares......... To parties.................................................... . . .
. . . — — — — . . — — — — . . — — — — . . . — — — — — — — — — — * — — — — Investments:
Purchased/subscribed/
conversion/ bonus................................. From parties.............................................. . Sales:
Goods............................................................. . For the Year
Ended
31st March Purchases:
Goods............................................................. . . — — . — . . . — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — Managerial remuneration.................
Stock options...................................................
Commission and other benefits
to non-executive/independent
directors (including nominee
directors) **........................................................
Others (sitting fees) #....................... For the Year
Ended
31st March Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP Entity
Welfare
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the Company — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — . . — — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — . . — — — — — . — — — — . . . — — . — . . — — . . . — . — — . . — . — — . . — . — — . . — . — — — . — — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — Finance:
Inter corporate deposits/loan
given...............................................................
Inter corporate deposits/loan
refunded by parties.............................
Inter corporate deposits/loan
taken..............................................................
Inter corporate deposits/loan
refunded to parties..............................
Debenture redeemed by related
parties...........................................................
Debenture redeemed to related
parties........................................................... MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Related party disclosures (Continued) . Related party disclosures (Continued)
Rupees crores S.
No. Nature of Transactions Debenture/preference shares
issued by parties....................................
Invoice Discounting..............................
Interest income.......................................
Interest expense....................................
Dividend received.................................... Dividend distributed............................... . Other expenses....................................... Reimbursements received from
parties........................................................... Reimbursements made to
parties........................................................... Purchase of assets/business
under assets/business transfer
agreement.................................................. . For the Year
Ended
31st March Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP . — — — — — — — — — — — ,. — — — — — ,. — — — — — * . — — — — — . . — — — . . — . — — . . — . — — ,. . — — — — ,. . — — — — — — . . . . — — . . . . . . — . . — . . — . — — . . — . — . . . — . — . . . — . * . . . — . — . . . — — — . . . — — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — . . * . — — . . * . — — Rupees crores Entity
Welfare
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the Company S.
No. Outstandings:
Trade and other payable.................. Nature of Transactions For the Year
Ended
31st March Associates/
Associates of
Subsidiaries/
Subsidiaries
of Associate Joint
Ventures/
Joint
Ventures of
Subsidiaries KMP Close
members
of KMP and
Entities
controlled/
jointly
controlled
by KMP . . . — — — . . — . — . . . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — . . — — — . — . . — — . . — — . — — . . — . — — . . — — — — . — — — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — . — — — — — . — — — — — Trade and other receivables............. Debentures/preference shares
issued by parties.................................... Debentures issued to parties............. Inter corporate deposits given.... Inter corporate deposits /loan
taken.............................................................. Security deposit paid.......................... Other Transactions:
Other income........................................... Advances given........................................... Guarantees given outstanding..... * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. ** includes sitting fees and commission paid/payable to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is a partner. # In addition, Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is entitled to the Benefits under the Special Post Retirement Benefit Scheme Transactions with related parties are at arm’s length. Entity
Welfare
belonging to Funds/PostPromoter/ employment
Promoter
benefit
Group
plans
holding %
or more in
the Company MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Segment information
Operating Segments The Company is both an operating company, primarily having operations in the Automotive and Farm Equipment segments and a holding company with a
portfolio of investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that operate in segments, like Financial Services, IT services, Real Estate, Hospitality,
Logistics, Defence, Renewables, etc. The operational revenue and results of these investments get reflected in the consolidated results of the Company. As part of the group strategy and vision, the Company is focused on operational efficiencies and synergies and driving value creation through partnerships,
mergers and acquisitions in order to generate periodic returns from these portfolio of investments/businesses. The CODM (Chief Operating Decision
Maker) of the Company therefore manages investments/businesses, allocates capital and measures performance under three key verticals, namely
Automotive, Farm Equipment and Services. Pursuant to this, the Group from year ended 31st March, has updated its consolidated segment disclosures and has reported four segments, namely
Automotive, Farm Equipment, Financial Services and Industrial Businesses and Consumer Services. Financial Services is part of the Services vertical
but reported separately as it meets the required quantitative threshold for separate reporting. Industrial Businesses and Consumer Services segment
comprises all other segments that individually do not meet the threshold for separate reporting. Further, the share of profit or loss and investments in
associates and joint ventures are now reported in their respective segments. Description of the each of the reportable segments is as under:
(a) Automotive: This segment comprises of sale of automobiles, two wheelers, spares, construction equipments and related services.
(b) Farm Equipment: This segment comprises of sale of tractors, implements, spares, powerol and related services.
(c)	Financial Services: This segment comprises of offering financial products ranging from retail and other loans, SME finance, housing finance, mutual
funds and life and non-life insurance broking services.
(d)	Industrial Businesses and Consumer Services segment comprises of all other segments like IT services, Real Estate, Hospitality, Logistics, Steel trading
and processing, Renewables, After-market, Defence, Agri, etc. that individually do not meet the reporting thresholds. In the consolidated financial statement, the segment related disclosures for comparative year has been reclassified to conform with the presentation and
reporting in the current year. Further, in accordance with the above change, the Group has reported the interest and other investment related income pertaining to the aforesaid
segments as ‘Income from Investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures’ in the consolidated financial statement as applicable.
Similarly, loss pertaining to the aforesaid segments is reported as ‘Loss from Investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures’. Such
incomes (net) which were reported as ‘Other income’ in comparative year has been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. Share of profit/
(loss) of associates and joint ventures continue to be presented separately in the consolidated financial statement. The measurement of each segment’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities is consistent with the accounting policies that are used in preparation of
the consolidated financial statements. Segment result represents the profit before interest and tax without allocation of corporate income and expenses.
Information regarding the Group’s reportable segments is presented below: . Segment Information (Continued)
Rupees crores
Particulars Automotive Farm
Equipment Services Total Eliminations Financial
Industrial
Services Businesses
and
Consumer
Services Profit before tax......................................................................................................... Revenue
External Revenue.......................................................................................................
Inter segment revenue...........................................................................................
Exceptional items gains for comparative periods included in
segment revenue........................................................................................................
Total Income from operations.....................................................................
Result
Segment result before Share of profit of associates and joint
ventures, (net)...............................................................................................................
Segment result after Share of profit of associates and joint
ventures, (net)............................................................................................................... Automotive Farm
Equipment Services Total Eliminations Financial
Industrial
Services Businesses
and
Consumer
Services Tax expense...................................................................................................................
Profit after tax............................................................................................................. Rupees crores
Particulars
Out of total external revenue above:– From contract with customers (as defined under Ind AS )....................................................................................................................................................
– From financial services...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Others.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
– Income from investments related to subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures............................................................................................................
Total............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Particulars Farm
Automotive Equipment ,.
,.
—
— ,. ,,.
,. ,,.
,.
,.
,.
,. — ,,.
— ,,.
(,.)
—
(,.)
— —
.
,.
,. —
.
,.
,. —
—
,.
,. —
—
,.
,.
,. ,,.
,. ,,. —
—
(,.)
—
(,.) ,,.
(,.) ,,. ,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. (.)
. ,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. ,.
,. (.)
. ,.
,. Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairment expense*................................................................................... Investment in associates and joint venture accounted using equity method..............................
Additions to non-current assets....................................................................................................................................
* ,.
,. .
. —
.
.
.
,.
,. —
.
.
.
,.
,. (b) Interest expenses not allocable to segments............................
(c) Interest income not allocable to segments.................................. .
(.)
(.)
(.)
.
. ,,.
,.
,.
.
,,. ,,.
,.
,.
.
,,. Services Total Financial Industrial
Services Businesses
and
Consumer
Services
.
. .
. ,.
,. —
—
—
.
.
,.
,. ,. ,.
. ,. ,.
.
. ,.
.
,.
,. Previous year amount includes impairment expense recognised Notes:
(i)	Additions to non-current assets comprises of capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including those under
development and capital advances.
(ii)	Figures in the above table for the current financial year have been presented in bold. Comparatives for each item have been presented below the
respective current year figures.
Segment assets and liabilities
Particulars Rupees crores
Automotive Reconciliation to Profit/(Loss) after tax
(a) Unallocable income, net of expenses............................................... Other information: Impairment expense of tangible and intangible assets recognised in ‘Exceptional items
(net)’ ,.
,.
.
. Rupees crores Consolidated
Total ,.
,.
.
. Consolidated
Total ,.
,.
(,.)
(,.)
,.
,. Rupees crores Particulars Farm
Equipment Services
Financial
Services Total Industrial
Businesses
and
Consumer
Services Segment Assets................................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,,. ,. ,. Segment Liabilities........................................................................................................................................... ,. ,. ,,. ,. ,,. ,. ,. ,. ,,.
,. ,. ,,.
,. ,,.
,,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Segment Information (Continued) . Segment Information (Continued)
Rupees crores Particulars Automotive Farm
Equipment Services
Financial
Services Total Industrial
Businesses
and
Consumer
Services Information about major customers Reconciliation of segment assets to total assets:
Segment Assets...................................................................................................................................................... ,,.
,,. Unallocable Assets............................................................................................................................................... ,.
,. Total Assets............................................................................................................................................................. The revenue information above is based on the location of the customer. The non-current assets in the above table represent Property, plant
and equipment, Capital work-in-progress, Goodwill, Other intangible assets, Intangibles under development, Income tax assets (Net) and Other
non-current assets (Non-financial). ,,.
,,. Unallocable Assets primarily comprise of investments other than investments related to associates and joint ventures, income tax assets and deferred
tax assets.
Reconciliation of segment liabilities to total liabilities: During the year ended 31st March and respectively, revenues from transactions with a single external customer did not amount
to per cent or more of the Group’s revenues from external customers.
. Contingent Liability & Commitments
A. Contingent Liability:
(a) (i)	Excise Duty, Sales Tax, and Service Tax claims disputed by the Group relating to issues of applicability and classification (before tax)
aggregating Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores). (ii) Taxation matters: (b) Segment Liabilities............................................................................................................................................... ,,.
,,. Unallocable Liabilities......................................................................................................................................... ,. Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts comprise of: (i)	Demands against the Group not acknowledged as debts and not provided for, relating to issues of deductibility and taxability in respect
of which the Group is in appeal and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed: ,. Other matters (before tax) (excluding claims where amounts are not ascertainable): Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). – Income-tax: Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores) net off MAT credit. (ii)	Items in respect of which the Group has succeeded in appeal, but the Income-tax Department is pursuing/likely to pursue in appeal/
reference and exclusive of the effect of similar matters in respect of assessments remaining to be completed: ,,. ,,. (c)	In respect of (a) & (b) above, it is not practicable for the Group to estimate the closure of these issues and the consequential timings of cash
flows, if any. Revenue from type of products and services (d) The operating segments are primarily based on nature of products and services and hence the Revenue from external customers of each segment is
representative of revenue based on products and services. (e)	Share of contingent liabilities of joint venture/associates relating to claims not acknowledged as debts and taxation matters:
Rs. ,. crores (: Rs. ,. crores). Total Liabilities.....................................................................................................................................................
Unallocable Liabilities primarily comprise of borrowings (excluding related to Financial Services Segment) and deferred tax liability. Geographical information
The Group operates in principal geographical areas – India (country of domicile), and Overseas. The Group’s income from operations and information about its
non-current assets are detailed below:
(i) Income from operations Rupees crores Particulars Revenue
from
contract with
customers India ................................................................
Overseas........................................................ Other
revenue ,,. ,.
,. Income from
investments
related to
subsidiaries,
associates
and joint
ventures
. Total
Revenue
income from
from
operations contract with
customers ,,. ,. Other
revenue ,. . . ,. ,. . ,,. ,. . ,,. ,,. ,. Income from
Total
investments income from
related to
operations
subsidiaries,
associates
and joint
ventures
. ,,.
. ,. . ,,. (ii) Non-Current assets
Rupees crores
Particulars India............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. Overseas.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ,. ,. ,. ,. B. – Income-tax matters: Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). Financial guarantee given on behalf of associates/joint ventures companies (Refer Note (b)(i)) Commitments: (a)	The estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for is Rs. ,. crores
(: Rs. ,. crores) and other commitment is Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). (b) The Group has contractual obligations towards long-term material purchase commitments for Rs. ,. crores as at 31st March, . (c) Share of capital commitment of joint venture/associates: Rs. . crores (: Rs. . crores). . Other information
(a) Research and Development expenditure Expensed to the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including certain expenditure based on allocations made, aggregate Rs. . crores
(: Rs. . crores).
(b)	During the year ended 31st March, , the Company’s subsidiary detected a fraud at its Branch in Aizawl, Mizoram (“the Branch”), in respect of
retail vehicle loans disbursed by it. The fraud was perpetrated in the Branch through collusion amongst some Branch employees, with segregated
duties, by forgery of KYC and asset related documents and involvement of other external people including vehicle dealers, leading to embezzlement
of such subsidiary’s funds. The Company’s subsidiary has appointed a law firm and an accounting firm to undertake a fact-finding assessment of the aforesaid suspected
irregularities (“Assessment”). Based on the results of the Assessment by the accounting firm and the management, , loan accounts were
identified by the management as potentially fraudulent in nature. These loans had an outstanding net recoverable balance of Rs. . crores
as of 31st March, , which have been fully provided.
(c)	On 16th March, , the Company’s subsidiary experienced a cyber security incident resulting in non-availability of certain applications and
systems for a period of days. The Company’s subsidiary engaged cybersecurity specialists to assist in investigation of and response to the
incident and remediation and restoration of the impacted applications and systems. By 22nd March, , the Company’s subsidiary built back the
impacted applications and systems from immutable backups. The core systems remained unimpacted and peripheral systems were restored by
25th March, . The investigation by the cybersecurity specialists has been completed and they have confirmed that all the servers containing
data pertaining to books of accounts have no evidence of unauthorized access. The Group continues to closely monitor the situation. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling interest
Rupees crores
Name of the entity Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount Share of profit or loss As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)
As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)
As % of
consolidated
TCI Mahindra and Mahindra Limited .% ,. .% ,. .% . .% .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (Continued)
Rupees crores
Name of the entity Amount PARENT ,. SUBSIDIARIES
Indian Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Mahindra & Mahindra ESOP Trust .% . .% . .% — .% . Sunrise Initiatives Trust .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Mahindra Construction Company
Limited -.% (.) .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Officemartindia.com Limited .% (.) .% — .% — .% — NBS International Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . Gromax Agri Equipment Limited .% . -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Trringo.com Limited .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited .% (.) -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Mahindra Airways Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Mahindra Fruits Private Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra HZPC Private Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Logistics Limited
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Blue Planet Integrated Waste
Solutions Limited (Formerly known as
Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions
Limited) (upto 27th December, ) .% — -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private
Limited (formerly known as Mahindra
Telecom Energy Management
Services Private Limited) .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Solarize Private Limited .% . -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Swaraj Engines Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Mahindra Telephonics Integrated
Systems Limited .% (.) -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited
(Consolidated) .% . .% . .% . .% . Kota Farm Services Limited .% (.) .% — .% — .% — Bristlecone India Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited (Consolidated) .% ,. .% ,. .% . .% ,. Mahindra Accelo Limited
(Consolidated) .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . Mahindra Lifespace Developers
Limited (Consolidated) .% ,. .% . -.% (.) .% . Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited (Consolidated) -.% (.) .% . .% . .% . Mahindra Holdings Limited .% ,. .% . -.% (.) .% . M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited Mahindra Integrated Business
Solutions Private Limited .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . Emergent Solren Private Limited
(upto 31st August, ) .% — .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited .% ,. .% . -.% (.) .% . Resurgence Solarize Urja Private
Limited .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Teqo Private Limited
(upto 28th September, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Mahindra Defence Systems Limited .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited
(Consolidated) Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited
(Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Mahindra eMarket Limited .% (.) .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited
(w.e.f 29th May, ) .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . M & M Benefit Trust .% ,. .% . .% — .% . Marvel Solren Private Limited (w.e.f.
11th December, ) .% . .% . .% — .% . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (Continued)
Rupees crores .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (Continued)
Rupees crores Name of the entity Name of the entity Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities
As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount Share of profit or loss As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI)
As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI)
As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount Foreign Bristlecone Middle East DMCC .% . .% . .% . .% . Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty.
Limited Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda .% . .% . .% . .% . .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . Mahindra Europe S.r.l. .% . .% . .% . .% . Mahindra Automotive North America
Inc. (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi .% . -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Erkunt Traktor Sanayi Anonim Şirketi .% . .% . .% . .% . Automobili Pininfarina GmbH
(Consolidated) .% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra Automotive Mauritius
Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Sampo Rosenlew Oy .% . -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Tech Mahindra Limited (Consolidated) .% ,. .% . .% . .% . CIE Automotive India Limited
(formerly known as Mahindra CIE
Automotive Limited) (upto 24th May,
) .% — .% . .% . .% . PSL Media & Communications Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Brainbees Solutions Limited (formerly
known as Brainbees Solutions Private
Limited) (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Medwell Ventures Private Limited
(Consolidated) (upto 19th April, ) .% — .% — .% — .% — Renew Sunlight Energy Private Limited .% . .% . .% — .% . Blue Planet Integrated Waste
Solutions Limited (Formerly known as
Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions
Limited) (w.e.f 28th December, ) .% . .% (.) .% — .% (.) CIE Automotive S.A. (Consolidated) .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . PF Holdings B.V. (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Mahindra & Mahindra South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . Mahindra USA Inc. .% . .% . .% . .% . Bristlecone Worldwide, Inc (formerly
known as Bristlecone Limited) -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Bristlecone Inc. .% . .% . .% . .% . Bristlecone Consulting Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Bristlecone International AG .% . .% . .% . .% . Bristlecone UK Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. .% . .% . -.% (.) .% (.) Bristlecone Singapore Pte. Limited .% . .% . -.% (.) .% . Bristlecone GmbH .% . .% . .% . .% . Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica
Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Mahindra Overseas Investment
Company (Mauritius) Limited -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring
FZ-LLC (Consolidated) .% . .% . .% . .% . Mahindra Racing UK Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe
Holdings S.a r.l .% (.) .% (.) .% — .% (.) Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural
Machinery Co. Ltd (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L
(Liquidated w.e.f. 28th March, ) .% — .% . .% — .% . Associates (Investment as per the
equity method)
Indian Foreign MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (Continued)
Rupees crores .	Statement of net assets and profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling
interest (Continued)
Rupees crores Name of the entity Name of the entity Resson Aerospace Corporation (upto
20th September, )
The East India Company Group Ltd
BVI (Consolidated) Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities Share of profit or loss Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount .% — .% (.) .% . .% (.) .% — .% — .% — .% — Joint Ventures (Investment as per
the equity method) .% — .% — .% — .% Share of Total
Comprehensive Income
(TCI) As % of
consolidated
net assets Amount As % of
consolidated
profit or loss Amount As % of
consolidated
OCI Amount As % of
consolidated
TCI Amount .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Non controlling Interest -.% (,.) -.% (,.) -.% (.) -.% (,.) Consolidation adjustments and
Inter Company Eliminations -.% (,.) -.% (,.) .% . -.% (,.) Total .% ,. .% ,. .% . .% ,. Mahindra Ideal Lanka (Private) Limited Rupees crores —
Name of the Struck off Company .% ,. .% . -.% (.) .% . Classic Legends Private Limited
(Consolidated) -.% (.) -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Carnot Technologies Private Limited .% . -.% (.) .% . -.% (.) Smartshift Logistics Solution Private
Limited (Consolidated) .% . -.% (.) -.% (.) -.% (.) Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited .% . -.% (.) .% — -.% (.) Aquasail Distribution Company
Private Limited .% . .% — .% — .% — New Delhi Centre for Sight Limited
(Consolidated) .% . .% . .% — .% . Mahindra Teqo Private Limited (w.e.f.
29th September, ) Share of Other
Comprehensive Income
(OCI) Transaction with Struck off Companies Mahindra Susten Private Limited
(Consolidated) Emergent Solren Private Limited
(w.e.f. 1st September, ) (upto 9th
January, ) Share of profit or loss . Additional Regulatory Information Indian
Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing
India Private Limited (upto 27th April,
) Net assets, i.e., total assets
minus total liabilities .%
.% —
. .%
.% .
. .%
.% —
— .%
.% .
. Foreign Receivables Payables Other Outstanding
Balances- Assets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies — * — — — Asmita Fire Safety Private Limited * — — — — Babace Pneumatics Private Limited — * — — — Badri Sarraf Finance & Mutual Benefit Company Limited — — — — BKG Securities Private Limited — — — — C Cube Sports Private Limited — . — — — Dimensions Engineering Technologies Private Limited — . — — — Dreams Comtrade Private Limited — — — — Elegant Finvest Private Limited — — — — Enffluence Technologies Private Limited — . — — — Frontline Corporate Finance Limited — — — — , Garlick Designing & Cons Private Limited — — — — Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Argus Media Private Limited Garsons Engineers Private Limited * — — — — General Managers Private Limited — . — — — Gomti Motors Private Limited . — — — — Greenpark Hotels and Resorts Limited . — — — — — * — — — High Calibre Cnc Centre Private Limited . — — — — Hotel Kamal Palace (North India Hotel And Industries Private
Limited) . — — — — Hudson Engineering Industries Private Limited — — — — , Jaipal Consultancy Private Limited — — — — Hanaro Hospitality Private Limited Mahindra-BT Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited .% . .% . .% . .% . Zoomcar Inc. (Consolidated) (upto
29th December, ) .% — .% — .% — .% — MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S . Additional Regulatory Information (Continued) . Additional Regulatory Information (Continued)
Rupees crores Name of the Struck off Company Rupees crores Receivables Payables Other Outstanding
Balances-Assets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies — — — — . — — — — M N S Logistics Private Limited * — — — — Magnate Leasing & Finance Private Limited — — — — Maptronicz Technologies Private Limited — * — — — Mayor Healthcare Private Limited — — * — — Midwest Mutual Fund Limited — — — — Niche Events And Promotions Private Limited . — — — — Positive Leasing & Finance Private Limited — — — — , Purushothama Investments Private Limited — — — — Rajpal Control Systems Private Limited — — — — Rapidform Technologies Private Limited * — — — — Ray Shield Technology Private Limited — . — — — . — — — — Rofin Baasel Laser India Private Limited * — — — — Safna Consultancy Private Limited — — — — Sahil Genset Sales Private Limited — * — — — Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited Sartaj Mega Project India Private Limited — * — — — Shalaka Technologies Private Limited — . — — — Sindhudurg Investments Private Limited — — — — Skypack Courier & Cargo Private Limited — * — — — Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited . — — — — Janardana Investments Private Limited
Knowledge Beans Training Management & Consulting
Private Limited Robomatrix Automation & Solutions Private Limited Skylite Enterprise Private Limited
Technosteel Commercial Kitchen Equipments Private Limited . — — — — The India Sugar Agencies Private Limited — — — — TI Tsubamex Private Limited — . — — — Vector Projects Private Limited — — . — — Versatile Options And Solutions Private Limited — . — — — Vidhan Marketing Private Limited — — — — Welcome Telecome Private Limited — — * — — Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited
Aditya Motors * — — — — A. G. Industries Private Limited — . — — — Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited
Retona Motors Private Limited — . — — — Birdcube Travel Private Limited * — — — — Name of the Struck off Company Receivables Payables Other Outstanding
Balances-Assets Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies Gansai Martech Private Limited — * — — — Corgence Solution Private Limited — . — — — Sanwaliya Motors Private Limited — — — * — Vardhman Motors Private Limited . — — — — — — — * — * — — — — Sundharams Private Limited . — — — — Balaji Translogistics Private Limited . — — — — M. Y. Transport Company Private Limited . — — — — Lufthansa Cargo India Limited — . — — — Star Shipping Services Private Limited — . — — — Allied Agritech Private Limited — . — — — NRE Plastic Private Limited . — — — — Skope Business Ventures Private Limited — . — — — Aromas-N-Blends Private Limited — * — — — C Gate Builders and Developers Private Limited — * — — — Entrepreneurs S-Commerce Private Limited — . — — — ASVRJ Logistic Private Limited * — — — — Mansarovar India Aqua Beverages Private Limited * — — — — Shiridi Srisai Solutions Private Limited . — — — — Sameodhi Tech Solutions Private Limited . — — — — Millpond Human Resource Private Limited . — — — — Sathesri Agro Products Private Limited . — — — — Console Cargo Logistics Services (I) Private Limited . — — — — Probus Infratech Private Limited . — — — — Parvathi Life Sciences (OPC) Private Limited * — — — — MRA Refino Private Limited * — — — — Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited Mud Flap Technologies Private Limited
Mahindra Logistics Limited
Leela Trade Links Private Limited Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Limited Name of the Struck off Company Kiran Enviro-Tech Energy Private Limited Auto World Private Limited Zafcon Engineering Private Limited
Payables
Other Outstanding
Balances-Assets
Other
Outstanding
BalancesLiabilities
Number of
Shares held
by Struck off
Companies Puneeth Techno Projects (OPC) Private Limited
.
—
—
—
— Square Fitness Private Limited
.
—
—
—
— Cocowings Enterprises Private Limited
.
—
—
—
— *
—
—
—
— Pallavi Infra Holding Private Limited
.
—
—
—
— Vh Square Healthcare Private Limited
.
—
—
—
— Balaji Infrastructure Private Limited
.
—
—
—
— *
—
—
—
— .
—
—
—
— Liance Consultant & Engineers Private Limited
*
—
—
—
— Fairdeal Motors And Workshop Private Limited
—
*
—
—
— Gomateshwar Investments Private Limited
—
—
—
.
— Safna Consultancy Private Limited
—
—
—
*
— Dreams Broking Private Limited
—
—
—
— Unickon Fincap Private Limited
—
—
—
— * denotes amounts less than Rs. ,. Note: The above information is provided on basis of reasonable diligence done to ascertain relevant companies that have been struck off on the website of the
Ministry of Company Affairs. . Previous year’s figures have been regrouped wherever necessary (refer note ). Signatures to Notes to The accompanying notes to are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements In terms of our report attached. Bengaluru, May, th For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited Directors:
For B S R & Co. LLP
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
Chartered Accountants
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Venkataramanan Vishwanath
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - )
Partner
Membership No.: Anand G. Mahindra Anish Shah Rajesh Jejurikar Manoj Bhat Narayan Shankar
Chairman (DIN - ) Managing Director and CEO (DIN - ) Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - ) Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 16th May, BSA Company Limited
The Birmingham Small Arms Company
Limited **
BSA Corporation Limited **
B.S.A. Motor Cycles Limited **
Gromax Agri Equipment Limited
Trringo.com Limited
Mahindra USA Inc. Automobili Pininfarina Americas Inc. Classic Legends Private Limited Automobili Pininfarina GmbH Mahindra and Mahindra South Africa
(Proprietary) Limited Mahindra Two Wheelers Europe Holdings
S.a.r.l. $ Mahindra Europe S.r.l. Mahindra Two Wheelers Limited Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited Mahindra Automotive Australia Pty.
Limited NBS International Limited Mahindra Racing UK Limited Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited Mahindra Heavy Engines Limited Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. // // // // . . . . . Exchange
rate . . . . . ,. . . . . . ,. . Share
Capital . . . USD . INR INR GBP . GBP . GBP . GBP . INR ,. . . * * * . . EUR . ,. INR GBP . USD . EUR . ZAR EUR . INR AUD INR INR INR Reporting
currency (,.) (.) (.) — — — . (.) (,.) (.) . (.) (,.) . . . . (.) . . Reserves &
Surplus ,. . . * * * . . . ,. . . . . . . . . ,. ,. Total
Assets ,. . . — — — . . . ,. . . . . . . . . ,. . Total
Liabilities — — — — — — * . . . — — . — * . — — . . Investments ,. — . — — — . . — ,. . . . ,. . . . . — ,. Gross
Turnover ^ . (.) (.) — — — (.) (.) . . . . (.) . . . . . . . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax . — — — — — — (.) . . — . . . . . . — . . Provision
for Tax . (.) (.) — — — (.) (.) (.) . . (.) (.) . . . . . . . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Rupees crores
Rupees crores . Additional Regulatory Information (Continued) Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (Continued) Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section () of section read with rule of Companies (Accounts) Rules, Statement Containing salient features of the financial statements of subsidiaries/associate companies/joint ventures as included in the Consolidated Financial Statements Receivables FORM AOC- MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Mahindra Vehicle Sales and Service Inc.
Mahindra do Brasil Industrial Ltda
Erkunt Traktor Sanayi Anonim Şirketi #
Erkunt Sanayi Anonim Şirketi #
Sampo Rosenlew Oy
Swaraj Engines Limited
Carnot Technologies Private Limited
M.I.T.R.A Agro Equipments Private
Limited
Mahindra Solarize Private Limited
Resurgence Solarize Urja Private Limited //
Mahindra Agri Solutions Limited
Mahindra Summit Agriscience Limited
Mahindra EPC Irrigation Limited
Mahindra Top Greenhouses Private
Limited
Mahindra HZPC Private Limited
Mahindra Fruits Private Limited
Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services
Limited
Mahindra Insurance Brokers Limited
Mahindra Rural Housing Finance Limited
Mahindra Manulife Investment
Management Private Limited Exchange
rate . . INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . EUR . TRY TRY BRL . USD . USD . USD . Reporting
currency Mahindra Finance CSR foundation
Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited
Mahindra Infrastructure Developers
Limited
Mahindra World City (Maharashtra)
Limited
Knowledge Township Limited
Industrial Township (Maharashtra)
Limited
Anthurium Developers Limited
Mahindra Industrial Park Private Limited
Mahindra Water Utilities Limited
Mahindra World City Developers Limited
Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Limited
Mahindra Bloomdale Developers Limited Mahindra Industrial Park Chennai Limited //
Mahindra Homes Private Limited
Mahindra Happinest Developers Limited
Mahindra Knowledge Park (Mohali)
Limited
Deep Mangal Developers Private Limited
Moonshine Construction Private Limited
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India
Limited
Mahindra Hotels & Residences India
Limited
Gables Promoters Private Limited INR INR INR INR INR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Exchange
rate . . . * . * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . Share
Capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . . ,. . Total
Assets . (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) . . (.) . . . (.) . (.) . (.) . ,. * . . Reserves &
Surplus (.) ,. . . . ,. * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . . . Total
Assets . ,. . ,. ,,. (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) . . . . . . . (.) (.) (.) Reserves &
Surplus . . ,. . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . ,. . . . Total
Liabilities . ,. . ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Total
Liabilities — . . . . . — . . . ,. . ,. ,. . . . . Gross
Turnover ^ — — ,. * * — — . . — . . — — — — — . . . — . . Investments . . . . . ,. — — — . . . . . . . — — — — — — . — . . Gross
Turnover ^ . ,. ,. ,. ,. — — — — — . — . — — . . . . — — ,. — Investments (.) (.) . (.) . (.) . . . (.) . . . (.) * . . (.) . (.) (.) . . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax (.) . . ,. . . (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) . (.) . (.) . . . . (.) (.) Profit/(Loss)
before Tax — — . — — — . . . (.) . . . — * (.) — . . (.) — . . Provision
for Tax — . . . — — — . — — — . . (.) . . . . . — — — Provision
for Tax (.) (.) . (.) . (.) . . . . . . . (.) * . . (.) . (.) (.) . . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax (.) . . ,. . . (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . . (.) (.) Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — — — — . — — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon — — . . — — — — — — — — — — . — — — — — — — .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - // // // // // INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR LKR INR Reporting
currency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . Share
Capital Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon Rupees crores CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // Mahindra Ideal Finance Limited // Mahindra Manulife Trustee Private
Limited Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (Continued) // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // Mahindra Automotive North America Inc. // Mahindra North American Technical
Center, Inc. Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (Continued) Heritage Bird (M) Sdn Bhd
Infinity Hospitality Group Company
Limited
MH Boutique Hospitality Limited
MHR Holdings (Mauritius) Limited
Covington S.a.r.l
Guestline Hospitality Management and
Development Service Limited
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts
Harihareshwar Limited
Holiday Club Resort Oy
Kiinteistö Oy Rauhan Liikekiinteistöt Ownership Services Sweden Ab
Are Villa Ab
Holiday Club Sweden Ab Åre
Holiday Club Sport and Spa Hotels AB
Holiday Club Resort Rus LLC #
Holiday Club Canarias Investments S.L.
Holiday Club Canarias Sales & Marketing
S.L.
Holiday Club Canarias Resort
Management S.L.
Holiday Club Canarias Vacation Club SLU //
Bristlecone Worldwide, Inc (formerly
known as Bristlecone Limited)
Bristlecone India Limited
Bristlecone Consulting Limited
Bristlecone (Malaysia) Sdn.Bhd.
Bristlecone International AG
Bristlecone (UK) Limited . . . Exchange
rate . . . . . . . . . . GBP . CHF MYR CAD . INR USD . EUR . EUR . EUR . EUR . RUB SEK SEK SEK SEK EUR . EUR . INR INR EUR . EUR . THB THB MYR Reporting
currency //
// // // // Bristlecone Middle East DMCC
Bristlecone GmbH
Bristlecone (Singapore) Pte. Limited
Bristlecone Internacional Costa Rica
Limited **
Mahindra-BT Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited
Mahindra Accelo Limited
Mahindra Steel Service Centre Limited
Mahindra Electrical Steel Private Limited **
Mahindra Auto Steel Private Limited
Mahindra Middleeast Electrical Steel
Service Centre (FZC)
PT Mahindra Accelo Steel Indonesia
Mahindra MSTC Recycling Private
Limited
Mahindra Holdings Limited Mahindra Overseas Investment Company
(Mauritius) Limited
// // Bristlecone Inc. Mahindra Automotive Mauritius Limited
Mahindra Susten Private Limited
Migos Hybren Private Limited **
Layer Hybren Private Limited **
Kyros Hybren Private Limited **
Jade Hybren Private Limited **
Furies Solren Private Limited **
Gelos Solren Private Limited **
Hazel Hybren Private Limited ** Illuminate Hybren Private Limited
(Formerly Known As Icarus Hybren
Private Limited) ** // Exchange
rate . . . . . . . . . INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR . . . . . . . . . EUR . USD . INR INR IDR AED INR INR INR INR USD . USD . SGD . EUR . AED USD . Reporting
currency . . . . . . . . . ,. ,. ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Share
Capital . . . * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Share
Capital (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) ,. (,.) (,.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . . . (.) . . . . Reserves &
Surplus (.) . . . . . . . (.) * (.) . . * . . . (.) . . (.) (.) (.) . Reserves &
Surplus . . . . . . . . ,. . ,. ,. . . . . . . ,. . . . . . . Total
Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . Total
Assets . . . . . . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Total
Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . — . . . . . . . . . . Total
Liabilities — — — — — — — — . — ,. ,. — — — — — — . . — — — — — Investments — — — — . . — . . . — — . — — — . — — . . . — — Investments — — — — — — — — . — . . . . . . — . ,. . — . . . . Gross
Turnover ^ . . . . . — . . . . — . . — — . ,. — — — — — . . Gross
Turnover ^ (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . . . (.) . . . . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax . . . . . (.) . . (.) . (.) (.) . * (.) . (.) (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) . Profit/(Loss)
before Tax — — — — — — — — . — (.) (.) . (.) — . — . . . — * . — . Provision
for Tax — * — . . (.) . . (.) * (.) — — — — — — — . . — — — . Provision
for Tax (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) (.) . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . . . (.) . . . . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax . . . . . (.) . . (.) . (.) (.) . * (.) . (.) (.) . (.) (.) (.) (.) . Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — — — — — — — — — — — — — . . — . . — — — — — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (Continued) // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (Continued) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - Marvel Solren Private Limited
Mahindra Defence Systems Limited
Mahindra Telephonics Integrated Systems
Limited
Mahindra Emirates Vehicle Armouring
FZ-LLC
Mahindra Armored Vehicles Jordan, LLC
Mahindra First Choice Wheels Limited
Fifth Gear Ventures Limited
Mahindra Integrated Business Solutions
Private Limited
Mahindra eMarket Limited
Mahindra Airways Limited
Mahindra Logistics Limited x Logistics Private Limited
Lords Freight (India) Private Limited
MLL Express Services Private Limited
MLL Mobility Private Limited
V-Link Freight Services Private Limited
MLL Global Logistics Limited $ **
Zipzap Logistics Private Limited
Mahindra Aerospace Private Limited
Mahindra Aerostructures Private Limited //
Mahindra Aerospace Australia Pty
Limited . . . . . . Exchange
rate . . . . . . . . . . . AUD INR INR INR . . . . GBP . INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR INR JOD . AED INR INR INR INR INR Reporting
currency Mahindra Construction Company Limited // // INR INR Reporting
currency . . Exchange
rate . . Share
Capital . . . . — . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Share
Capital (.) . Reserves &
Surplus (.) (.) (.) . — (.) . (.) . (.) . (.) (.) . . . . . (.) . . . (.) Reserves &
Surplus . . Total
Assets . . . . — . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . . ,. . . . Total
Assets . . Total
Liabilities . . . . — . . . . . ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . Total
Liabilities — . Investments — — . — — — — . . — . — — . — . — . — . — — — Investments — . Gross
Turnover ^ — . — . — . . . . . ,. — . . . . . . . . . . — Gross
Turnover ^ . (.) Profit/(Loss)
before Tax (.) . (.) (.) — (.) . (.) . . . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . . . (.) Profit/(Loss)
before Tax (k) Airvan Pty Limited
(l) Gippsaero Pty Limited
(m) Airvan Flight Services Pty Limited
(n) Mahindra Mexico S. de. R. L
(o) V-Link Automotive Services Private Limited
(p) V-Link Fleet Solutions Private Limited
(q) Emergent Solren Private Limited (b) Megasolis Renewables Private Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Renewables Private Limited)
(c) Neo Solren Private Limited
(d) Astra Solren Private Limited
(e) Brightsolar Renewable Energy Private Limited
(f) Mega Suryaurja Private Limited
(g) MSPL International DMCC
(h) GA8 Airvan Pty Limited
(i) GA200 Pty Limited (j) Nomad TC Pty Limited (a) Blue Planet Integrated Waste Solutions Limited (formerly known as Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Limited) Names of subsidiaries which have ceased to exist during the year on account of Liquidation/Sale/Merger through scheme of arrangement are as under : * . Provision
for Tax — — — — — — — (.) . . . — — . * (.) — — — . . . — Provision
for Tax Notes:
* denotes amounts less than Rs. ,.
^ Gross turnover means revenue from operations of respective entities
** denotes companies yet to commence operations
# denotes companies where reporting period is different from 1st April, to 31st March, . The financial year for all other subsidiaries is 1st April, to 31st March, $ Based on unaudited financial statements as audit is not required as per their local laws
@ excluding shares issued to ESOP Trusts of the respective entities/their holding companies but not allotted to employees
## TThere are no companies where voting power is different from ownership interests except in case of Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited Mahindra Sustainable Energy Private
Limited (formerly known as Mahindra
Telecom Energy Management Services
Private Limited) Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (Continued) // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // // Mahindra Teqo Private Limited // Martial Solren Private Limited ** Name of Subsidiary Sr.
No. The date since
when subsidiary
was acquired Part “A” Subsidiaries [as per section () of the Companies Act, ] (Continued) . (.) Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax (.) . (.) (.) — (.) . (.) . . . (.) (.) . (.) (.) . . (.) . . . (.) Profit/ (Loss)
after Tax — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon — — — — — — — — — — . — — . — — — . — . — — — Proposed
Dividend
and Tax
thereon .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% .% Proportion
of ownership
interest
@ ## Rupees crores CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S
MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LTD.
Integrated Annual Report - CO N S O L I DAT E D
ACCO U N T S Part “B” Details of Associates / Joint Ventures [as per Section () of the Companies Act, ]
Rupees crores
Name of Associates /Joint Ventures Audited
Balance
Sheet Date Date of
Acquisition No. of
Equity
shares held
†† Proportion
of
ownership
interest Cost of
Networth
Investments attributable to
Shareholding
as per latest
audited
Balance Sheet Tech Mahindra Limited // // ,,, .% . Officemartindia.com Limited // // ,, .% — Mahindra & Mahindra Contech Limited // // , .% Kota Farm Services Limited // Profit/(Loss) for the year
Considered in
Consolidation Not
considered in
consolidation ,. . ,. (.) * * . . . . // ,, .% . (.) * * Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural
Machinery co., Ltd.§ // .% . . (.) (.) P.F. holding BV $ // ,,, .% . . (.) (.) ,,, .% . . (.) (.) Smartshift Logistics Solutions Private
Limited // // Mahindra Ideal Lanka Private Limited // // ,, .% . . (.) (.) Renew Sunlight Energy Private Limited // ,,, .% . . . . Brainbees Solutions Limited (formerly
known as Brainbees Solutions Private
Limited) // ,,, .% . . (.) (.) // ,, .% . . (.) (.) Blue Planet Integrated Waste
Solutions Limited (Formerly known as
Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions
Limited) // Notes:
a) There are no associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations.
b) Names of entities which have ceased to be an associate or a joint venture during the year:
(i) Zoomcar Inc.
(ii) Sanyo Special Steel Manufacturing India Private Limited
(iii) CIE Automotive India Limited (formerly known as Mahindra CIE Automotive Limited)
* denotes amount less than Rs. , †† Including equity/preferred shares to be issued on conversion of participating Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares
$ Based on unaudited financial statements as audit is not required as per their local laws § In addition to JPY750 million Common Stock (which represents .% of the Common stock), the Company owns the entire JPY , million “Class A” shares
(shares with no voting rights); “Class A” shares have rights over dividend and liquidation on an equal basis with Common Stock. For Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
Directors:
Vikram Singh Mehta (DIN - )
T. N. Manoharan (DIN - )
Haigreve Khaitan (DIN - )
Shikha Sharma (DIN - )
Nisaba Godrej (DIN - )
Muthiah Murugappan (DIN - ) Anand G. Mahindra
Anish Shah
Rajesh Jejurikar
Manoj Bhat
Narayan Shankar Chairman (DIN - )
Managing Director and CEO (DIN - )
Executive Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)
(DIN - )
Group Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary (ACS No. ) Mumbai, 16th May, Registered Office: MAHINDRA &
MAHINDRA LIMITED
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai - www.mahindra.com MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Notice
THE SEVENTY EIGHTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MAHINDRA
& MAHINDRA LIMITED will be held on Wednesday, the 31st day of
July, at . p.m., Indian Standard Time (IST), through Video
Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) facility to
transact the following businesses. the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the remuneration
payable to Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants having
Firm Registration Number , appointed by the Board
of Directors of the Company as Cost Auditors to conduct the
audit of the cost records of the Company for the Financial Year
ending 31st March, , amounting to Rs. ,, (Rupees
Nine Lakhs Fifty Thousand only) (plus Goods and Services Tax
and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses) be ratified. The proceedings of the Seventy Eighth Annual General Meeting
(“AGM”) shall be deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office
of the Company at Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder, Mumbai – which shall be the deemed venue of the AGM. FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company be
accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company (including
any Committee thereof) to do all such acts, deeds, matters
and things and to take all such steps as may be required
in this connection including seeking all necessary approvals
to give effect to this Resolution and to settle any questions,
difficulties or doubts that may arise in this regard.” ORDINARY BUSINESS
.	Consideration and Adoption of the Audited Standalone
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial
Year ended 31st March, and the Reports of the
Board of Directors and Auditors thereon
 o consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: . 
“RESOLVED that the Audited Standalone Financial
Statements of the Company for the Financial Year ended
31st March, and the Reports of the Board of Directors
and Auditors thereon, as circulated to the Members, be
considered and adopted.”  o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as a Special Resolution: “RESOLVED that in partial modification of the Resolution
No. passed by the Members at the Seventy Fifth Annual
General Meeting held on 6th August, (“75th AGM”)
and pursuant to the provisions of sections and read with Schedule V and all other applicable provisions
of the Companies Act, (“the Act”), the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, , Regulation ()(ca) of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, (“Listing Regulations”)
[including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s)
thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in
force], and such other approvals, permissions and sanctions,
as may be required and subject to such conditions and
modifications, as may be prescribed or imposed by any of
the authorities while granting such approvals, permissions
and sanctions, approval of the Company be accorded to the
revision in the Total Remuneration of Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
(DIN: ), Non-Executive Chairman of the Company
for a period from 1st April upto 11th November, ,
being the remainder period for which his remuneration was
earlier approved by Members at the 75th AGM, as under: .	Consideration and Adoption of the Audited Consolidated
Financial Statements of the Company for the Financial
Year ended 31st March, and the Report of the
Auditors thereon
 o consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: 
“RESOLVED that the Audited Consolidated Financial
Statements of the Company for the Financial Year ended
31st March, and the Report of the Auditors thereon,
as circulated to the Members, be considered and adopted.”
. Declaration of Dividend on Ordinary (Equity) Shares 
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: "RESOLVED that a Dividend of Rs. . (%) per Ordinary
(Equity) Share of the face value of Rs. each for the year
ended 31st March, on ,,, Ordinary (Equity)
Shares of the Company aggregating Rs. ,. crores as
recommended by the Board of Directors be declared and
that the said Dividend be distributed out of the Profits for
the year ended on 31st March, ."
. Total Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum split
as under:  e-appointment of Dr. Anish Shah, as a Director liable
R
to retire by rotation (a)	Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum by way of
monthly payment and  o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: (b) Commission of Rs. ,,, per annum. FURTHER RESOLVED that except for the revision in the
Total Remuneration as above, all other terms and conditions
of remuneration, as approved earlier by the Members at the
75th AGM, and which are not dealt with in this Resolution,
shall remain unchanged and continue to be effective. 
“RESOLVED that Dr. Anish Shah (DIN: ), who
retires by rotation and being eligible for re-appointment, be
re-appointed as a Director of the Company.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS
.  evision in the terms of Remuneration of Mr. Anand G.
R
Mahindra, Non-Executive Chairman of the Company Provided that the above remuneration be paid to Mr. Anand
G. Mahindra even if it exceeds one percent of the net
profits of the Company in accordance with sections and of the Act, including any statutory modification(s) or
re-enactment(s) thereof. Ratification of Remuneration to Cost Auditors
 o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of section and
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, [including
any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) thereto or reenactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force] and pursuant to Provided further that the above remuneration be paid to
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra notwithstanding the limits approved by
the Members of the Company for payment of remuneration to
Non-Executive Directors of the Company from time to time. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED FURTHER RESOLVED that where in any financial year during
the period from 1st April, upto 11th November, ,
the Company has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the
Company may pay the above remuneration to Mr. Anand G.
Mahindra, Non-Executive Chairman of the Company as the
minimum remuneration, subject to receipt of the requisite
approvals, if any. appointed by the Board of Directors as an Additional Director
(Non-Executive Non-Independent) of the Company, with effect
from 17th May, under section of the Act and the
Articles of Association of the Company and who holds office
up to the date of this Annual General Meeting of the Company
and in respect of whom the Company has received a Notice in
writing from a Member under section of the Act, proposing
his candidature for the office of Director of the Company, being
so eligible, be appointed as a Non-Executive Non-Independent
Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation.” FURTHER RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of
Regulation ()(ca) of the Listing Regulations, approval
of the Company be accorded for payment of the above
remuneration to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: ),
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for the Financial
Year -, being an amount exceeding fifty percent
of the total annual remuneration payable to all the
Non‑Executive Directors of the Company for the Financial
Year -. .	
Appointment of Ms.
Independent Director as an “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of sections
, , read with Schedule IV and other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, (“the Act”), the
Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors)
Rules, and Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, [including any statutory modification(s)
or amendment(s) thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof
for the time being in force], Ms. Padmasree Warrior (DIN:
), who was appointed as an Additional Director
(Independent and Non-Executive) of the Company, with
effect from 17th May, under section of the Act
and the Articles of Association of the Company and who
holds office upto the date of this Annual General Meeting
of the Company, and who qualifies for being appointed
as an Independent Director and in respect of whom the
Company has received a Notice in writing from a Member
under section of the Act, proposing her candidature for
the office of Director of the Company, being so eligible, be
appointed as an Independent Director of the Company, not
liable to retire by rotation, to hold office for a term of (five) consecutive years commencing from 17th May, to 16th May, (both days inclusive).”  ppointment of Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo as a Non-Executive
A
Non-Independent Director
 o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of section and all other applicable provisions of the Companies
Act, (“the Act”), the Companies (Appointment and
Qualifications of Directors) Rules, and Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, [including any statutory
modification(s) or amendment(s) thereto or re‑enactment(s)
thereof for the time being in force], Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo
(DIN: ), who was appointed by the Board
of Directors as an Additional Director (Non-Executive
Non‑Independent) representing Life Insurance Corporation
of India on the Board of Directors of the Company, with
effect from 17th May, under section of the Act
and the Articles of Association of the Company and who
holds office up to the date of this Annual General Meeting
of the Company and in respect of whom the Company has
received a Notice in writing from a Member under section of the Act, proposing his candidature for the office of
Director of the Company, being so eligible, be appointed as
a Non-Executive Non-Independent Director of the Company,
liable to retire by rotation.”
. Warrior  o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as a Special Resolution: FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to do all such acts, deeds,
matters and things and to take all such steps as may be
required in this connection including seeking all necessary
approvals to give effect to this Resolution and to settle
any questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in this
regard and further to execute all necessary documents,
applications, returns and writings as may be necessary,
proper, desirable or expedient.”
. Padmasree .	
Re-appointment of Mr.
Independent Director Haigreve Khaitan as an  o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as a Special Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of sections
, , read with Schedule IV and other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, (“the Act”), the
Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors)
Rules, and Securities and Exchange Board of
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, [including any statutory modification(s)
or amendment(s) thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof for the
time being in force], Mr. Haigreve Khaitan (DIN: ),
who was appointed as an Independent Director of the
Company at the 73rd Annual General Meeting of the
Company held on 7th August, and who holds office
of Independent Director up to 7th August, and who is
eligible for being re-appointed as an Independent Director
and in respect of whom the Company has received a Notice
in writing from a Member under section of the Act,
proposing his candidature for the office of Director, be
re-appointed as an Independent Director of the Company,
not liable to retire by rotation, to hold office for a second
term of (five) consecutive years commencing from
8th August, to 7th August, (both days inclusive).”  ppointment of Mr. Ranjan Pant as a Non-Executive
A
Non-Independent Director
 o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of section and all other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, (“the Act”), the Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of
Directors) Rules, and Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, [including any statutory modification(s) or
amendment(s) thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time
being in force], Mr. Ranjan Pant (DIN: ), who was .	Re-appointment of Ms. Shikha Sharma as an Independent
Director allowance in lieu thereof, soft furnishings, retention
bonus, medical reimbursement, domiciliary expenses
at actuals to cover self, spouse and children below
the age of years and leave travel concession for
self and family, club subscription, use of Company
cars (amount of car Lease, Fuel & Maintenance, Driver
Reimbursement), education subsidy, Employer and
Employee contribution to National Pension System,
medical and personal accident insurance, subsidy for
Parents’ Medical Insurance, Group Term Insurance and
Club Mahindra/Holiday Home Facility and such other
allowances, benefits, amenities and facilities, including
those under the Company’s Special Post Retirement
Benefits Scheme, as amended from time to time, in
accordance with the Rules of the Company.  o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as a Special Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of sections ,
, read with Schedule IV and other applicable provisions
of the Companies Act, (“the Act”), the Companies
(Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, and
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, [including
any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) thereto
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force],
Ms. Shikha Sharma (DIN: ), who was appointed as
an Independent Director of the Company at the 73rd Annual
General Meeting of the Company held on 7th August, and who holds office of Independent Director up to 7th August, and who is eligible for being re-appointed as an
Independent Director and in respect of whom the Company
has received a Notice in writing from a Member under section of the Act, proposing her candidature for the office of
Director, be re-appointed as an Independent Director of the
Company, not liable to retire by rotation, to hold office for a
second term of (five) consecutive years commencing from
8th August, to 7th August, (both days inclusive).” The value of the perquisites would be evaluated as per
Income Tax Rules, wherever applicable and at
cost in the absence of any such Rule.
.	In addition to the above, the appointee during his
tenure of re-appointment shall be entitled to ESOPs
in accordance with the Company’s ESOPs Scheme(s)
as may be approved by the Governance, Nomination
and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”) from time to
time, not exceeding .% of the total number of equity
shares in the paid-up share capital of the Company
during his tenure of re-appointment. . R
 e-appointment of Dr. Anish Shah as Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company designated
as “Group CEO and Managing Director” with effect from
1st April, to 31st March, .	Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund,
National Pension System, Gratuity as per rules of the
Fund/ Scheme in force from time to time would not be
included in the computation of ceiling on remuneration
to the extent these either singly or put together are
not taxable under the Income Tax Act, .  o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as a Special Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of sections , and read with Schedule V and all other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, (“the Act”) and the
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
Personnel) Rules, and Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, [including any statutory modification(s)
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] and
such other approvals, permissions and sanctions, as may be
required and subject to such conditions and modifications,
as may be prescribed or imposed by any of the authorities
while granting such approvals, permissions and sanctions,
approval of the Company be accorded to the re-appointment
of Dr. Anish Shah (DIN: ) as the Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer of the Company designated as
“Group CEO and Managing Director” with effect from 1st April, to 31st March, (both days inclusive), liable to retire
by rotation, on a basic salary in the scale of Rs. ,, to
Rs. ,,, per month. .	Encashment of earned leave at the end of the tenure
as per Rules of the Company shall not be included in
the computation of ceiling on remuneration.
Performance Pay: In addition to the salary, perquisites and ESOPs as mentioned
above, the appointee would be entitled to Performance
Pay based on the performance of the appointee and the
Company not exceeding % of the Annual Basic Salary. Provided that any revision(s) in the remuneration, will be
decided by the Board based on the recommendations of the
GNRC and the recommendation of GNRC will be based on
Company performance and individual performance. Provided that the remuneration payable to the appointee
(including the salary, perquisites, ESOPs, performance pay)
does not exceed the limits laid down in section and
computed in the manner laid down in section of the Act,
including any statutory modifications or re-enactment thereof. FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to revise the basic salary
payable to Dr. Anish Shah, Managing Director and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company (hereinafter referred to as
the appointee) within the above-mentioned scale of salary. FURTHER RESOLVED that where in any financial year during
the currency of the tenure of the appointee, the Company
has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company
may pay to the appointee, the above remuneration as the
minimum remuneration by way of salary, perquisites, other
allowances, benefits and Performance Pay as specified
above, for a period not exceeding (three) years or such
other period as may be statutorily permitted, subject to
receipt of the requisite approvals, if any. FURTHER RESOLVED that in addition to the basic salary, the
perquisites (including benefits and allowances) payable or
allowable and performance pay, to the appointee be as follows:
Perquisites: FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to do all such acts, deeds,
matters and things and to take all such steps as may be
required in this connection including seeking all necessary 
.	
In addition to the basic salary, the appointee shall
also be entitled to Perquisites not exceeding %
of the Annual Basic Salary which would include
accommodation (furnished or otherwise including
interest on housing deposit and rent) or house rent MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED approvals to give effect to this Resolution and to settle
any questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in this
regard and further to execute all necessary documents,
applications, returns and writings as may be necessary,
proper, desirable or expedient.” .	In addition to the above, the appointee during his
tenure of re-appointment shall be entitled to ESOPs in
accordance with the Company’s ESOPs Scheme(s) as
may be approved by the Governance, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”) from time to time,
not exceeding .% of the total number of equity shares
in the paid-up share capital of the Company during his
tenure of re-appointment. . R
 e-appointment of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as Whole-time
Director of the Company designated as “Executive
Director and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)” of the Company
with effect from 1st April, to 24th June, Provided that any revision(s) in the remuneration, will be
decided by the Board based on the recommendations of the
GNRC and the recommendation of GNRC will be based on
Company performance and individual performance. applicable provisions of the Companies Act, read with
Rules made thereunder and other applicable provisions, if
any, [including any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s)
thereto or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in
force], the Company’s Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with
Related Party Transactions, and subject to such approval(s),
consent(s), permission(s) as may be necessary from time
to time and based on the approval/ recommendation of the
Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company,
approval of the Members be accorded to the Company to
enter into/ continue with the existing Material Related Party
Transaction(s)/ Contract(s)/ Arrangement(s)/ Agreement(s)
(whether by way of an individual transaction or transactions
taken together or series of transactions or otherwise) falling
within the definition of ‘Related Party Transaction’ under
Regulation ()(zc) of the Listing Regulations read with the
definition of ‘Related Party’ under Regulation ()(zb) of the
Listing Regulations, with Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
(“MEAL”), Subsidiary and a Related Party of the Company, based
on the revised monetary limit for a period commencing from
the Seventy Eighth Annual General Meeting upto the date of
Seventy Ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in the year as detailed in the explanatory statement
to this Resolution, on such material terms and conditions as
mentioned therein and as may be mutually agreed between
the Company and MEAL, provided that the said contract(s)/
arrangement(s)/ agreement(s)/transaction(s) shall be carried
out in the ordinary course of business of the Company and at
an arm’s length basis. Provided that the remuneration payable to the appointee
(including the salary, perquisites, ESOPs, performance pay)
does not exceed the limits laid down in section and
computed in the manner laid down in section of the Act,
including any statutory modifications or re-enactment thereof. FURTHER RESOLVED that except for the modification
mentioned above, all other terms and conditions as approved
earlier by the Members at the Seventy Seventh Annual General
Meeting, and which are not dealt with in this Resolution, shall
remain unchanged and continue to be effective. FURTHER RESOLVED that where in any financial year during
the currency of the tenure of the appointee, the Company
has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company
may pay to the appointee, the above remuneration as the
minimum remuneration by way of salary, perquisites, other
allowances, benefits and Performance Pay as specified
above, for a period not exceeding (three) years or such
other period as may be statutorily permitted, subject to
receipt of the requisite approvals, if any. 
FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the
Company (including any Committee thereof) be authorised to
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may deem fit
at its absolute discretion and to take all such steps as may be
required in this connection including finalising and executing
necessary contract(s), scheme(s), agreement(s) and such
other documents as may be required, seeking all necessary
approvals to give effect to this Resolution, for and on behalf
of the Company and settling all such issues, questions,
difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise and to take
all such decisions with regard to the powers herein conferred
to, without being required to seek further consent or approval
of the Members or otherwise to the end and intent that
the Members shall be deemed to have given their approval
thereto expressly by the authority of this Resolution. .	Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund,
National Pension System, Gratuity as per rules of the
Fund/ Scheme in force from time to time would not be
included in the computation of ceiling on remuneration
to the extent these either singly or put together are
not taxable under the Income Tax Act, .  o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following
T
Resolution as a Special Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of sections , and read with Schedule V and all other applicable
provisions of the Companies Act, (“the Act“) and the
Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
Personnel) Rules, and Securities and Exchange Board
of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, [including any statutory modification(s)
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] and
such other approvals, permissions and sanctions, as may be
required and subject to such conditions and modifications,
as may be prescribed or imposed by any of the authorities
while granting such approvals, permissions and sanctions,
approval of the Company be accorded to the re-appointment
of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar (DIN: ) as the Whole-time
Director of the Company designated as “Executive Director
and CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)” of the Company with
effect from 1st April, to 24th June, (both days
inclusive), liable to retire by rotation, on a basic salary in the
scale of Rs. ,, to Rs. ,, per month. .	Encashment of earned leave at the end of the tenure
as per Rules of the Company shall not be included in
the computation of ceiling on remuneration.
Performance Pay: In addition to the salary, perquisites and ESOPs as mentioned
above, the appointee would be entitled to Performance
Pay based on the performance of the appointee and the
Company not exceeding % of the Annual Basic Salary. FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to revise the basic salary
payable to Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as Executive Director and
CEO (Auto and Farm Sector) (hereinafter referred to as the
appointee) within the above mentioned scale of salary. FURTHER RESOLVED that in addition to the basic salary, the
perquisites (including benefits and allowances) payable or
allowable and performance pay, to the appointee be as follows:
Perquisites: FURTHER RESOLVED that approval of the Company
be accorded to the Board of Directors of the Company
(including any Committee thereof) to do all such acts, deeds,
matters and things and to take all such steps as may be
required in this connection including seeking all necessary
approvals to give effect to this Resolution and to settle
any questions, difficulties or doubts that may arise in this
regard and further to execute all necessary documents,
applications, returns and writings as may be necessary,
proper, desirable or expedient.” .	
In addition to the basic salary, the appointee shall
also be entitled to Perquisites not exceeding %
of the Annual Basic Salary which would include
accommodation (furnished or otherwise including
interest on housing deposit and rent) or house rent
allowance in lieu thereof, soft furnishings, retention
bonus, medical reimbursement, domiciliary expenses
at actuals to cover self, spouse and children below
the age of years and leave travel concession for
self and family, club subscription, use of Company
cars (amount of car Lease, Fuel & Maintenance, Driver
Reimbursement), education subsidy, Employer and
Employee contribution to National Pension System,
medical and personal accident insurance, subsidy for
Parents’ Medical Insurance, Group Term Insurance
and Club Mahindra/Holiday Home Facility and such
other allowances, benefits, amenities and facilities in
accordance with the Rules of the Company. . M
 aterial Modification of earlier approved Material
Related Party Transactions between the Company and
Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited, a Subsidiary of
the Company
 o consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that in partial modification of the Resolution No. passed by the Members at the Seventy Seventh Annual
General Meeting of the Company held on 4th August, , and
pursuant to the provisions of Regulation () of the Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, (“Listing Regulations”), the The value of the perquisites would be evaluated as per
Income Tax Rules, wherever applicable and at
cost in the absence of any such Rule. permission(s) as may be necessary from time to time and based
on the approval/ recommendation of the Audit Committee and
the Board of Directors of the Company, approval of the Members
be accorded to the Material Related Party Transaction(s)/
Contract(s)/ Arrangement(s)/ Agreement(s) (whether by way
of an individual transaction or transactions taken together or
series of transactions or otherwise) falling within the definition
of ‘Related Party Transaction’ under Regulation ()(zc) of the
Listing Regulations to be entered into by the Subsidiaries of
the Company as detailed in the explanatory statement to this
Resolution on such material terms and conditions as mentioned
therein and as may be mutually agreed between the parties, for
a period commencing from the Seventy Eighth Annual General
Meeting upto the date of Seventy Ninth Annual General Meeting
of the Company to be held in the year provided that the
said contract(s)/ arrangement(s)/ agreement(s)/ transaction(s)
shall be carried out in the ordinary course of business and at an
arm’s length basis. 
FURTHER RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the
Company (including any Committee thereof) be authorised to
do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may deem fit
at its absolute discretion and to take all such steps as may be
required in this connection including finalising and executing
necessary contract(s), scheme(s), agreement(s) and such
other documents as may be required, seeking all necessary
approvals to give effect to this Resolution, for and on behalf
of the Company and settling all such issues, questions,
difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise and to take
all such decisions with regard to the powers herein conferred
to, without being required to seek further consent or approval
of the Members or otherwise to the end and intent that
the Members shall be deemed to have given their approval
thereto expressly by the authority of this Resolution. FURTHER RESOLVED that all actions taken by the Board of
Directors of the Company (including any Committee thereof) in
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in this
Resolution, be approved, ratified and confirmed in all respects.”
Notes:
. 
Pursuant to General Circular No. / dated
5th May, issued by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs (“MCA”) read together with MCA General
Circular Nos. & / dated 8th April, and
13th April, respectively and MCA General Circular
No. / dated 25th September, ("MCA
Circulars"), the Company will be conducting this Annual
General Meeting (“AGM” or “Meeting”) through Video
Conferencing/Other Audio Visual Means (“VC”/“OAVM”). KFin Technologies Limited, Registrar & Transfer Agent of
the Company (earlier known as KFin Technologies Private
Limited) (“KFin” or “KFintech”) shall be providing facility
for voting through remote e-voting, for participation in the
AGM through VC/OAVM facility and e-voting during the AGM.
The procedure for participating in the meeting through VC/
OAVM is explained at Note No. below. FURTHER RESOLVED that all actions taken by the Board of
Directors of the Company (including any Committee thereof) in
connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in this
Resolution, be approved, ratified and confirmed in all respects.”
. A
pproval for Material Related Party Transactions
pertaining to Subsidiaries of the Company . Pursuant to the above-mentioned MCA Circulars, physical
attendance of the Members is not required at the AGM,
and attendance of the Members through VC/OAVM will be
counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under
section of the Companies Act, ("the Act").  o consider and if thought fit, to pass, the following
T
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation of
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, (“Listing
Regulations”) and other applicable provisions, if any, [including
any statutory modification(s) or amendment(s) thereto or
re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being in force], the
Company’s Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related
Party Transactions, and subject to such approval(s), consent(s), . Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled
to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a Proxy to
attend and vote on his/her behalf and the Proxy need not be a
Member of the Company. Since this AGM is being held through
VC/OAVM, pursuant to the applicable MCA Circulars read with
Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) Circular No. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-/P/CIR// dated 7th October, physical attendance of Members has been dispensed
with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of Proxies by the
Members will not be available for the AGM and hence the Proxy
Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice. (a)	whose names appear as Beneficial Owners as at the
end of the business hours on Friday, 5th July, in
the list of Beneficial Owners to be furnished by National
Securities Depository Limited and Central Depository
Services (India) Limited in respect of the shares held in
electronic form; and . 
Corporate/Institutional Members are entitled to appoint
authorised representatives to attend the AGM through VC/
OAVM on their behalf and cast their votes through remote
e-voting or at the AGM. Corporate/Institutional Members
intending to authorise their representatives to participate
and vote at the Meeting are requested to send a certified
copy of the Board resolution/authorisation letter to the
Scrutiniser at e-mail ID sbhagwatcs@yahoo.co.in with a copy
marked to evoting@kfintech.com and to the Company at
investors@mahindra.com, authorising its representative(s)
to attend through VC/OAVM and vote on their behalf at the
Meeting, pursuant to section of the Act. (b)	whose names appear as Members in the Register of
Members of the Company as at the end of the business
hours on Friday, 5th July, after giving effect to
valid request(s) received for transmission/ transposition
of shares.
.	
ELECTRONIC CREDIT OF DIVIDEND: SEBI has made it
mandatory for all companies to use the bank account
details furnished by the Depositories and the bank account
details maintained by the Registrar and Transfer Agent
for payment of dividend to Members electronically. The
Company has extended the facility of electronic credit of
dividend directly to the respective bank accounts of the
Member(s) through the National Electronic Clearing Service
(NECS)/ National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT)/Real Time
Gross Settlement (RTGS)/Direct Credit, etc. . Members of the Company under the category of Institutional
Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate in
the AGM through VC/OAVM and vote.
. In accordance with the Secretarial Standard - on General
Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of
India (“ICSI”) read with Clarification/Guidance on applicability
of Secretarial Standards - and dated 15th April, issued by the ICSI, the proceedings of the AGM shall be
deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office of the
Company which shall be the deemed venue of the AGM.
Since the AGM will be held through VC/OAVM, the Route
Map is not annexed to this Notice. 
Further, the Shareholders holding shares in physical
form may kindly note that SEBI, vide its various circulars
has mandated that dividend shall be paid only through
electronic mode with effect from 1st April, . Hence,
the Shareholders are requested to update their details with
Company/KFin by submitting ISR forms available on website
of the Company viz. https://www.mahindra.com/investorrelations/reports to avoid delay in receipt of dividend. Company during the Financial Year (“FY“) - provided a
valid PAN is provided by the shareholder. In case shareholders
do not have PAN or have invalid PAN or have not registered
their valid PAN details with their DP/ KFin or shareholder's
PAN is not linked with Aadhar or shareholders are classified
as specified person u/s 206AB of the Income Tax Act, ,
TDS at the rate of % shall be deducted under Section
206AA of the Income Tax Act, .
a)	
For Resident Individual: No TDS shall be deducted on
the Dividend payable to a resident individual if the total
dividend to be received during FY - does not
exceed Rs. ,. Please note that this includes the
future dividends, if any, which may be declared by the
Board in the FY -. Separately, in cases where the shareholder provides
Form 15G (applicable to individuals) / Form 15H
(applicable to individuals who are years and above),
no tax at source shall be deducted provided that the
eligibility conditions are being met. Needless to say,
PAN is mandatory. Members are requested to note
that in case their PAN is not registered, the tax will be
deducted at a higher rate of %. i. The Board of Directors has considered and decided to
include Item Nos. to given above as Special Business in
the AGM in view of the business requirements and as such
unavoidable in nature. Members holding shares in demat form are requested to update
their bank account details with their respective Depository
Participants (“DPs”). The Company or KFin cannot act on any
request received directly from the Members holding shares in
dematerialised form for any change of bank particulars. Such
changes are to be intimated only to the DPs of the Members.
Further, instructions, if any, already given by them in respect
of shares held in physical form will not be automatically
applicable to shares held in the electronic mode. .	The Register of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel
and their shareholding maintained under section of
the Act and Register of Contracts or arrangements in
which directors are interested maintained under section of the Act and relevant documents referred to in this
Notice of AGM and explanatory statement, will be available
electronically for inspection by the Members during the
AGM. All documents referred to in the Notice will also be
available for electronic inspection without any fee by the
Members from the date of circulation of this Notice up to
the date of AGM, i.e. 31st July, . 
Shareholders are requested to ensure that their bank
account details in their respective demat accounts are
updated to enable the Company to provide timely credit of
dividend in their bank accounts.
.	
TDS ON DIVIDEND: Pursuant to the Income Tax Act, ,
as amended by the Finance Act, , dividends paid or
distributed by a company on or after 1st April, has
become taxable in the hands of the shareholders and
therefore, the Company shall be required to deduct tax
at source (TDS) from dividend paid to shareholders at
the prescribed rates. For the prescribed rates for various
categories, shareholders are requested to refer to the
Finance Act, and amendments thereof. Shareholders
are requested to update their Permanent Account Number
(“PAN”) with the Company/KFin (in case of shares held in
physical mode) and Depositories (in case of shares held in
demat mode) on or before Friday, 28th June, . Members seeking to inspect such documents can send an
email to agm.inspection@mahindra.com.
.	The Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agent for its Share
Registry Work (Physical and Electronic) is KFin having their
office at Selenium, Tower-B, Plot No. -, Gachibowli,
Financial
District,
Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally,
Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana – , India.
. BOOK CLOSURE: The Register of Members and Transfer
Books of the Company will be closed from Saturday, 6th July, to Wednesday, 31st July, (both days inclusive)
for the purpose of Dividend and AGM.
. DIVIDEND: The dividend, as recommended by the Board of
Directors, if approved at the AGM, would be paid subject
to deduction of tax at source, as may be applicable, after
31st July, , to those persons or their mandates: 
For Resident Shareholders: Tax shall be deducted at source
under section of the Income Tax Act, at the rate
of % on the amount of Dividend declared and paid by the Insurance Companies: Self-declaration that
it qualifies as 'Insurer' as per section (7A) of
the Insurance Act, and has full beneficial
interest with respect to the ordinary shares
owned by it along with self-attested copy of PAN
card and certificate of registration with Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India
(IRDAI)/LIC/GIC. ii. Mutual Funds: Self-declaration that it is
registered with SEBI and is notified under section (23D) of the Income Tax Act, along with
self-attested copy of PAN card and certificate of
registration with SEBI. iii. 
A
lternative
Investment
Fund
(AIF):
Self‑declaration that its income is exempt under
section (23FBA) of the Income Tax Act, and they are registered with SEBI as Category I
or Category II AIF along with self-attested copy of
PAN card and certificate of AIF registration with
SEBI. iv. v. vi. vii.  pproved Gratuity Fund: Self-attested copy of
A
valid approval granted by Commissioner under
Rule of Part C of Fourth Schedule to the
Income Tax Act, . viii. N
 ational Pension Scheme: A declaration that
the NPS is exempt under Section () of the
Income Tax Act, and registration taken
under Pension Fund Regulatory and Development
Authority Act, . ix. 
O
ther Non-Individual shareholders: Selfattested copy of documentary evidence
supporting the exemption along with selfattested copy of PAN card. Please note that as per section 206AB of the Income
Tax Act, in case a person has not filed his/her
Return of Income for the preceding financial year and
the aggregate of tax deducted at source in his/her
case is Rs. , or more in the said financial year,
TDS will be higher of the following: b)	
For Resident Non-Individual: No tax shall be deducted
on the dividend payable to the following resident nonindividuals where they provide relevant details and
documents: As directed by SEBI, the Members holding shares in physical
form are requested to submit particulars of their bank
account in Form ISR- alongwith the original cancelled
cheque bearing the name of the Member to KFin/the
Company to update their bank account details. .	The Explanatory Statement as required under section of the Act is annexed hereto. Further, additional information
with respect to Item No. is also annexed hereto. under Rule of Part B of Fourth Schedule to the
Income Tax Act, . a)	Twice the rate specified in the relevant provision
of the Income Tax Act, ; or b) Twice the rate or rates in force; or c) The rate of five per cent. The non-residents who do not have permanent
establishment and residents who are not required to
file a return under section of Income Tax Act, are excluded from the scope of a "specified
person" i.e. levy of higher TDS under section 206AB of
the Income Tax Act, .
 or Non-resident Shareholders: Taxes are required to be
F
withheld in accordance with the provisions of section read with section 115A of the Income Tax Act, at
the rate of % (plus applicable surcharge and cess) on
the amount of Dividend payable to them. In case of GDRs
and Foreign Portfolio Investors ("FPI”)/ Foreign Institutional
Investors ("FII"), the withholding tax shall be as per the rates
specified in sections 196C and 196D of the Income Tax Act, respectively plus applicable surcharge and cess on the
amount of dividend payable to them. However, as per section of the Income Tax Act, ,
the non-resident shareholder has the option to be governed
by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement
(“DTAA”) between India and the country of tax residence of
the shareholder, if they are more beneficial to them. For
this purpose, i.e. to avail DTAA benefits, the non-resident
shareholder will have to provide the following:  ew Pension System (NPS) Trust: Self
N
declaration that it qualifies as NPS trust and
income is eligible for exemption under section
() of the Income Tax Act, and is being
regulated by the provisions of the Indian Trusts
Act, along with self-attested copy of PAN
card. •	Self-attested copy of PAN card allotted by the Indian
Income Tax authorities.
•	Self-attested copy of Tax Residency Certificate (TRC) for
Financial Year - obtained from the tax authorities
of the country of which the shareholder is a resident.  ecognized Provident Fund: Self-attested copy
R
of a valid order from Commissioner under Rule of Part A of Fourth Schedule to the Income
Tax Act, or self-attested valid documentary
evidence (e.g. relevant copy of registration,
notification, order, etc.) in support of the provident
fund being established under a scheme framed
under the Employees' Provident Funds Act, . •	Shareholders who have PAN and propose to claim
treaty benefit need to mandatorily file Form 10F online
at link https://eportal.incometax.gov.in/ with effect
from 1st April, to avail the benefit of DTAA.
•	
Self-declaration by shareholder of meeting treaty
eligibility requirement and satisfying beneficial
ownership requirement for Financial Year -.  pproved Superannuation Fund: Self-attested
A
copy of valid approval granted by Commissioner MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED •	
Self-declaration by the non-resident shareholder
of having no Permanent Establishment in India in
accordance with the applicable Tax Treaty. Members who have not encashed the dividend warrants/
demand drafts so far in respect of the unclaimed and unpaid
dividends declared by the Company for the Financial Year
- and thereafter, are requested to make their claim
to KFintech well in advance of the last dates for claiming
such unclaimed and unpaid dividends as specified hereunder: •	In case of Foreign Institutional Investors and Foreign
Portfolio Investors, copy of SEBI registration certificate.
•	In case of shareholder being tax resident of Singapore,
a letter issued by the competent authority or any other
evidence demonstrating the non-applicability of Article - Limitation of Relief under India-Singapore DTAA. Date of
declaration of
dividend Last date for
claiming unpaid/
unclaimed dividend 31st March, 4th August, 2nd September, 31st March, 7th August, 5th September, 31st March, 7th August, 5th September, st March, 7th August, 6th September, 31st March, 6th August, 6th September, March, August, 5th September, March, August, 3rd September, Financial year
ended Please note that the Company is not obligated to apply
the beneficial DTAA rates at the time of tax deduction/
withholding on dividend amounts. Application of beneficial
DTAA rate shall depend upon the completeness and
satisfactory review by the Company of the documents
submitted by the Non-Resident shareholder. st Declaration Under Rule 37BA st In case the dividend income is assessable to tax in the hands
of a person other than the registered shareholder as on
Friday, 5th July, , in terms of Rule 37BA of the Income
Tax Rules, , the registered shareholder is required to
furnish a declaration containing the name, address, PAN of
the person to whom TDS credit is to be given and reasons for
giving credit to such person on or before Saturday, 6th July,
. No request in this regard would be accepted by the
Company/KFin after the said date or payment of dividend. th
th Pursuant to the provisions of Investor Education and
Protection Fund Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer
and Refund) Rules, (“IEPF Rules”), the Company has
uploaded the details of unpaid and unclaimed amounts lying
with the Company as on 31st March, on the website of
the Company at https://www.mahindra.com and also on the
website of the MCA at http://www.iepf.gov.in/. Shareholders are requested to note that pursuant to the
provisions of section of the Act read with IEPF Rules,
all shares on which dividend has not been paid or claimed
for seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred to
IEPF Authority as notified by the MCA. .	
Members may submit the aforementioned documents
on or before Friday, 28th June, in order to enable
the Company to determine and deduct appropriate tax.
No communication on the tax determination/deduction
shall be entertained post Friday, 28th June, . It may
be further noted that in case the tax on said dividend is
deducted at a higher rate in the absence of receipt of the
aforementioned details/ documents from the shareholders,
there would still be an option available with the shareholders
to file the return of income and claim an appropriate refund,
if eligible. In accordance with the aforesaid IEPF Rules, an individual
communication is being sent to all Members whose shares
are due for transfer to the IEPF Authority, informing them
to claim their unclaimed/unpaid dividend before due date to
avoid such transfer of shares to IEPF Authority and notice
in this regard is being published in Newspapers. Members whose unclaimed dividends/shares are/will be
transferred to the IEPF Authority can claim the same by
making an online application to the IEPF Authority in
the prescribed Form No. IEPF- by following the refund
procedure as detailed on the website of IEPF Authority
http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html. In the event of any income tax demand (including
interest, penalty, etc.) arising from any misrepresentation,
inaccuracy or omission of information provided by the
shareholder, such shareholder will be responsible to
indemnify the Company and also provide the Company
with all information/ documents and co-operation in any
appellate proceedings. . NOMINATION: Members can avail nomination facility in
respect of shares held by them in physical form pursuant to
the provisions of section of the Act. Members desiring to
avail this facility may send their nomination in the prescribed
Form No. SH- duly filled in to KFin at the above-mentioned
address. Members holding shares in electronic form may
contact their respective DPs for availing this facility. The Company shall arrange to email the soft copy of TDS
certificate to the shareholders at the registered email ID in
due course, post payment of the said Dividend. 
An email communication informing the shareholders
regarding TDS as well as the relevant procedure to be
adopted by them to avail the applicable tax rate is being
sent by the Company at the registered email IDs of the
Shareholders. . T
RANSFER OF SHARES PERMITTED IN DEMAT FORM
ONLY: As per Regulation of the SEBI (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, ("Listing
Regulations"), securities of listed companies can be transferred
only in dematerialised form with effect from 1st April, ,
except in case of transmission or transposition of securities.
Further, SEBI vide its Master Circular dated 7th May, ,
has mandated that securities shall be issued only in
dematerialised mode while processing duplicate/ unclaimed
suspense/ renewal/ exchange/ endorsement/ sub‑division/
consolidation/ transmission/ transposition service requests
received from physical securities holders. In view of the above
and to eliminate risk associated with physical shares and
to avail various benefits of dematerialisation, Members are
advised to dematerialise their shares held in physical form. . IEPF: Under section of the Act, dividends that are
unclaimed/unpaid for a period of seven years are required
to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection
Fund (“IEPF“) administered by the Central Government. An
amount of Rs. ,,, being unclaimed/unpaid dividend
of the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, was transferred in September, to IEPF. The Company paid to IEPF on 7th August, , an amount
of Rs. ,,,. towards dividend for the Financial
Year ended 31st March, on the shares which were
transferred to IEPF. Members are accordingly requested to get in touch with any
DP having registration with SEBI to open a Demat account
or alternatively, contact the nearest branch of KFintech
to seek guidance in the demat procedure. Members may
also visit website of depositories viz. National Securities
Depository Limited ("NSDL") at https://nsdl.co.in/faqs/faq.
php or Central Depository Services (India) Limited ("CDSL")
at
https://www.cdslindia.com/Investors/open-demat.html
for further understanding the demat procedure. Members
may also refer to Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) on
Company’s website at the weblink https://www.mahindra.
com/investor-relations/reports. . S
CRUTINISER FOR E-VOTING: Mr. Sachin Bhagwat,
Practicing Company Secretary (Membership No. ACS
) and failing him Mr. Mandar Jog, Practicing Company
Secretary (Membership No. FCS ) has been appointed
as the Scrutiniser to scrutinise the e-voting process in a fair
and transparent manner.
. SUBMISSION OF QUESTIONS / QUERIES PRIOR TO AGM:
a.	For ease of conduct of AGM, Members who wish to
ask questions/express their views on the items of
the businesses to be transacted at the meeting
are requested to write to the Company’s investor
email ID investors@mahindra.com, at least hours
before the time fixed for the AGM i.e. by . p.m.
(IST) on Monday, 29th July, , mentioning their
name, demat account number/folio number, registered
email ID, mobile number, etc. The queries may be raised
precisely and in brief to enable the Company to answer
the same suitably depending on the availability of time
at the AGM. . E
LECTRONIC DISPATCH OF NOTICE AND ANNUAL
REPORT: In accordance with the MCA General Circular
No. / dated 5th May, , MCA General
Circular No. / dated 25th September, , SEBI
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-PoD-/P/CIR//
dated 7th October, and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/
DDHS/P/CIR// dated 6th October, , the
Annual Report for Financial Year -, which inter-alia
comprises of the Audited Financial Statements along with
the Reports of the Board of Directors and Auditors thereon
and Audited Consolidated Financial Statements along with
the Reports of the Auditors thereon for the Financial Year
ended 31st March, pursuant to section of the Act
and Notice calling the AGM pursuant to section of the
Act read with the Rules framed thereunder, are being sent
only in electronic mode to those Members whose e-mail
addresses are registered with the Company/KFintech or the
DP(s). The physical copies of such statements and Notice
of AGM will be dispatched only to those shareholders who
request for the same. b.	Alternatively, Members holding shares as on the
cut‑off date i.e. Wednesday, 24th July, , may also
visit http://emeetings.kfintech.com and click on the tab
“Post Your Queries” and post their queries/ views in
the window provided, by mentioning their name, demat
account number/ folio number, email ID and mobile
number. The window shall be closed hours before
the time fixed for the AGM i.e. at . p.m. (IST) on
Monday, 29th July, .
c.	
Members can also post their questions during AGM
through the “Ask A Question” tab, which is available
in the VC/OAVM Facility as well as in the one way live
webcast facility. 
Members are requested to register/update their email
addresses, in respect of electronic holdings with the
Depository through the concerned DPs and in respect of
physical holdings with the Company/KFintech by following
due procedure. The Company will, at the AGM, endeavour to address the
queries received till . p.m. (IST) on Monday, 29th July, from those Members who have sent queries from their
registered email IDs. Please note that Members’ questions
will be answered only if they continue to hold shares as on
the cut-off date. A copy of the Notice of this AGM along with Annual Report
for the FY - is available on the website of the
Company at https://www.mahindra.com, website of the Stock
Exchanges where the shares of the Company are listed i.e.
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at
www.bseindia.com and www.nseindia.com respectively and
on the website of KFin at https://evoting.kfintech.com. . S
 PEAKER REGISTRATION BEFORE AGM: Members of the
Company who would like to speak or express their views
or ask questions during the AGM may register themselves
as speakers by visiting http://emeetings.kfintech.com and
clicking on “Speaker Registration” during the period from
Monday, 22nd July, (: a.m. IST) upto Wednesday,
24th July, (: p.m. IST). Those Members who have
registered themselves as a speaker will only be allowed
to speak/express their views/ask questions during the
AGM provided they hold shares as on the cut-off date i.e.
Wednesday, 24th July, . The Company reserves the
right to restrict the number of speakers depending on the
availability of time at the AGM. . Members are requested to: a.	intimate to KFin/ the Company, changes, if any,
pertaining to their postal address, e-mail address,
telephone/ mobile numbers, PAN, nominations, in Form
ISR- and other forms prescribed by SEBI;
b.	intimate to the respective DP, changes, if any, in their
registered addresses at an early date, in case of shares
held in dematerialised form; . INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS ATTENDING THE AGM
THROUGH VC/OAVM: c.	quote their folio numbers/DP ID/ Client ID in all
correspondence; e.	register their PAN with their DPs, in case of shares
held in dematerialised form; and a)	
ATTENDING THE AGM: Members will be provided with
a facility to attend the AGM through video conferencing
platform provided by KFin. Members are requested to
login at http://emeetings.kfintech.com and click on the
“Video Conference” tab to join the Meeting by using
the remote e-voting credentials. f.	refer to Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) section
on Company’s website at the weblink https://www.
mahindra.com/investor-relations/reports
for
all
requisite formats and procedures. b) Please note that Members who do not have User ID and
Password for e-voting or have forgotten User ID and
Password may retrieve the same by following the
instructions provided in Note No. and . d.	consolidate their holdings into one folio in case they
hold shares under multiple folios in the identical order
of names; MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED c) 
Members may join the Meeting through Laptops,
Smartphones, Tablets or iPads for better experience.
Further, Members will be required to use Internet
with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during
the Meeting. Members will need the latest version of
Chrome, Safari, MS Edge or Firefox. Please note that
participants connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets
or through Laptops connecting via mobile hotspot
may experience Audio/Video loss due to fluctuation in
their respective network. It is therefore recommended
to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection to mitigate any
glitches. Members are encouraged to join the Meeting
through Laptops with latest version of Google Chrome
for better experience. . PROCEDURE FOR REMOTE E-VOTING In compliance with the provisions of section of the
Act read with Rule of the Companies (Management and
Administration) Rules, , as amended and the provisions
of Regulation of the Listing Regulations read with SEBI
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/CIR/P// dated
9th December, , Members are provided with the facility
to cast their vote electronically through the e-voting services
provided by KFin on all resolutions set forth in this Notice,
through remote e-voting. Members are requested to note
that the Company is providing facility for remote e-voting
and the business may be transacted through electronic
voting system. It is hereby clarified that it is not mandatory
for a Member to vote using the remote e-voting facility. A
Member may avail of the facility at his/her/its discretion, as
per the instructions provided herein: d) 
Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM mode minutes before the scheduled time of the
commencement of the Meeting by following the
procedure mentioned at Point No. a above and this
mode will be available throughout the proceedings of
the AGM. Type of shareholders Login Method Individual Shareholders
holding securities in
demat mode with CDSL . . . Login Method
. User already registered for IDeAS facility:
I.
Visit URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com
II.
Click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” under ‘IDeAS’ section.
III. On the new page, enter User ID and Password.
IV. Post successful authentication, click on “Access to e-Voting”
V.	You will see Company Name: “Mahindra & Mahindra Limited” on the next screen. Click on the e-Voting
link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service provider “KFintech”
and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote without any further
authentication.
. . To register click on link: https://eservices.nsdl.com II. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp III. Proceed with completing the required fields. IV. Follow steps given in point . Alternatively by directly accessing the e-Voting website of NSDL
I. Open URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ II. Click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. III.	On the login page, enter User ID (that is, -character demat account number held with NSDL, starting
with IN), Login Type, that is, through typing Password (in case you are registered on NSDL’s e-voting
platform)/ through generation of OTP (in case your mobile/e-mail address is registered in your demat
account) and Verification Code as shown on the screen.
IV.	On successful authentication, you will enter the e-voting module of NSDL. Click on “Active E-voting
Cycles / VC or OAVMs” option under E-voting. You will see Company Name: “Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited” on the next screen. Click on the e-Voting link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited
or select e-Voting service provider “KFintech” and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of
KFintech to cast your vote without any further authentication. Option to register is available at https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Registration/EasiRegistration II. Proceed with completing the required fields. III. Follow the steps given in point . Alternatively, by directly accessing the e-Voting website of CDSL
I. Visit URL: www.cdslindia.com II. Click on Evoting tab and provide your demat Account Number and PAN. Individual Shareholders I.	Individual shareholders holding shares of the Company in Demat mode can access e-Voting facility provided
holding securities in
by the Company using login credentials of their demat accounts (online accounts) through their demat
demat mode – Login
accounts / websites of DPs registered with NSDL/CDSL.
through demat accounts/ II.	An option for “e-Voting” will be available once you have successfully logged-in through your respective
Website of DP
logins. Click on the option “e-Voting” and you will be redirected to e-Voting modules of NSDL/CDSL (as may
be applicable). III.	Click on the e-Voting link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service provider
“KFintech” and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote without any
further authentication. Members who are unable to retrieve User ID / Password
are advised to use "Forgot user ID" and "Forgot
Password" option available at respective websites. (ii)	Enter the login credentials (i.e. User ID and
password). In case of physical folio, User
ID will be EVEN followed by folio number.
In case of Demat account, User ID will be
your DP ID and Client ID. However, if you are
already registered with KFin for e-voting,
you can login by using your existing User ID
and password for casting your vote. (iii)	After entering these details appropriately,
click on “LOGIN”. (iv)	You will now reach password change Menu
wherein you are required to mandatorily
change your password. The new password
shall comprise of minimum characters
with at least one upper case (A-Z), one lower
case (a-z), one numeric value (-) and a
special character (@,#,$, etc.). The system
will prompt you to change your password
and update your contact details like mobile
number, email ID, etc. on first login. You may
also enter a secret question and answer of
your choice to retrieve your password in case
you forget it. It is strongly recommended
that you do not share your password with
any other person and that you take utmost
care to keep your password confidential. (v)	You need to login again with the new
credentials. (vi)	On successful login, the system will prompt
you to select the “EVENT” i.e. Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited. Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities
in demat mode for any technical issues related to login
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL: User not registered for IDeAS e-Services
I. I. IV.	On successful authentication, you will enter the e-voting module of CDSL. Click on the e-Voting
link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service provider “KFintech”
and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote without any further
authentication. Login method for remote e-Voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode Type of shareholders
Individual Shareholders
holding securities in
demat mode with NSDL User not registered for Easi/Easiest III.	System will authenticate user by sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the demat
Account. The procedure to login and access remote e-voting, as devised by the Depositories/ DP(s), is given below:
A) Enter your User ID and Password for accessing Easi/Easiest. III.	You will see Company Name: “Mahindra & Mahindra Limited” on the next screen. Click on the e-Voting
link available against Mahindra & Mahindra Limited or select e-Voting service provider “KFintech”
and you will be re-directed to the e-Voting page of KFintech to cast your vote without any further
authentication. Pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/
CIR/P// dated 9th December, on “e-Voting
facility provided by Listed Companies”, e-Voting process has
been enabled to all the individual demat account holders, by
way of single login credential, through their demat accounts/
websites of Depositories / DPs in order to increase the
efficiency of the voting process. Individual demat account holders would be able to cast
their vote without having to register again with the
e-Voting service provider (ESP) thereby not only facilitating
seamless authentication but also ease and convenience of
participating in e-Voting process. Shareholders are advised
to update their mobile number and e-mail ID with their DPs
to access e-Voting facility. I.	Visit URL: https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasitoken/Home/Login or URL: www.cdslindia.com and click on
New System Myeasi / Login to My Easi option under Quick Login
II. 
Information and instructions for Remote e-voting by
Individual Shareholders holding shares of the Company
in demat mode: e)	
In case of any query and/or help, in respect of
attending AGM through VC/OAVM mode, Members may
refer to the "How it Works" section of http://emeetings.
kfintech.com or contact at investors@mahindra.com, or
Mr. Premkumar Maruturi, Senior Manager – Corporate
Registry, KFintech at Selenium, Tower B, Plot No.
-, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana – or at the email ID evoting@kfintech.com or
on phone No.: - or call KFin’s toll free
No.: -- for any further clarifications. Existing user already opted for Easi/Easiest Login type Helpdesk details Securities
held with
NSDL Please contact NSDL helpdesk by sending
a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at
toll free no.: and Securities
held with
CDSL Please contact CDSL helpdesk by sending
a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.
com or contact at - or / B)	Login method for e-Voting for shareholders other
than Individual shareholders holding securities
in demat mode and for all shareholders holding
securities in physical mode. a.	Member will receive an e-mail from KFin
[for Members whose e-mail IDs are registered
with the Company/DP(s)] which includes details
of E-Voting Event Number (“EVEN“), user id and
password: (i)	Launch internet browser by typing the URL:
https://evoting.Kfintech.com MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED (vii)	On the voting page, enter the number of
shares (which represents the number of
votes) as on the cut-off date under “FOR/
AGAINST” or alternatively, you may partially
enter any number in “FOR” and partially
“AGAINST” but the total number in “FOR/
AGAINST” taken together shall not exceed
your total shareholding as on the cutoff date. You may also choose the option
"ABSTAIN". If the Member does not indicate
either “FOR” or “AGAINST” it will be treated
as “ABSTAIN” and the shares held will not be
counted under either head. (viii)	Voting has to be done for each item of the
notice separately. In case you do not desire
to cast your vote on any specific item, it will
be treated as abstained. (ix)	Members holding multiple folios/demat
accounts shall vote separately for each
folio/demat account. (x)	You may then cast your vote by selecting an
appropriate option and click on “Submit”. (xi)	A confirmation box will be displayed. Click
“OK” to confirm else “CANCEL” to modify.
Once you have voted on the resolution(s),
you will not be allowed to modify your
vote. During the voting period, you can login
multiple times till you have confirmed that
you have voted on the resolution. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED investors@mahindra.com, or Mr. Premkumar Maruturi,
Senior Manager - Corporate Registry, KFin at Selenium,
Tower B, Plot No. -, Gachibowli, Financial
District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad,
Rangareddy, Telangana – or at the email
ID evoting@kfintech.com or on phone No.: - or call KFin’s toll free No.: -- for
any further clarifications.
b. You can also update your mobile number and e-mail
ID in the user profile details of the folio which may be
used for sending future communication(s).
c. The remote e-voting period commences on Friday,
26th July, (: a.m. IST) and ends on Tuesday,
30th July, (: p.m. IST). During this period,
Members of the Company, holding shares either in
physical form or in dematerialised form, as on the
cut-off date i.e. Wednesday, 24th July, may cast
their votes electronically. The remote e-voting module
shall be disabled for voting thereafter. Once the vote
on a resolution(s) is cast by the Member, the Member
shall not be allowed to change it subsequently. A person who is not a Member as on the cut-off date
should treat this Notice for information purposes only.
d.	The voting rights of Members shall be in proportion to
their share in the paid-up equity share capital of the
Company as on Wednesday, 24th July, being the
cut-off date. Members are eligible to cast their vote
only if they are holding shares as on that date.
e. Persons holding securities in physical mode and
non‑individual shareholders holding securities in demat
mode who become Members of the Company after
dispatch of AGM Notice but on or before the cut-off
date for E-Voting, i.e. Wednesday, 24th July, , may
obtain the User ID and Password in the manner as
mentioned below: (xii)	Corporate/ Institutional Members (i.e. other
than Individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required
to send scanned certified true copy (PDF
Format) of the Board Resolution/ Authority
Letter, etc., duly authorising their authorised
representative(s) to attend the AGM through
VC/OAVM on its behalf and to vote through
remote e-voting to the Scrutiniser at his
e-mail ID sbhagwatcs@yahoo.co.in with a
copy marked to evoting@kfintech.com and to
the Company at investors@mahindra.com. It
should reach the Scrutiniser & the Company
by email not later than Tuesday, 30th July, (: p.m. IST). In case the authorised
representative attends the Meeting, the above
mentioned documents shall be submitted
before the commencement of AGM. b. 	In case e-mail ID of a Member is not registered
with the Company/ DP(s), then such Member
is requested to register/update their e-mail
addresses with the DP (in case of Shares held in
dematerialised form) and inform KFin at the email
ID evoting@kfintech.com (in case of Shares held in
physical form): (i)	If the mobile number of the Member is registered
against Folio No./DP ID Client ID, the Member may
send SMS: MYEPWD Folio No. or DP ID Client ID
to + . In case of physical holding,
prefix Folio No. with EVEN. (i)	Upon registration, Member will receive an
e-mail from KFin which includes details of
E-Voting Event Number (EVEN), User ID and
password.
(ii)	Please follow all steps from Note No. (B) (a) (i) to (xii) above to cast your vote by
electronic means. . OTHER INSTRUCTIONS:
a. In case of any query and/or grievance, in respect
of voting by electronic means, Members may refer
to the Help & Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
and E-voting user manual available at the download
Section of http://evoting.kfintech.com or contact at Example for NSDL:
MYEPWD <SPACE> IN12345612345678
Example for CDSL:
MYEPWD <SPACE> Example for Physical:
MYEPWD <SPACE> XXXX1234567890
(XXXX being EVEN) (ii)	If e-mail address or mobile number of the Member
is registered against Folio No./ DP ID Client ID, then
on the home page of http://evoting.kfintech.com,
the member may click “Forgot Password” and
enter Folio No. or DP ID Client ID and PAN to
generate a password. (iii)	Member may call KFin toll free number -. (iv)	Member may send an e-mail request to
evoting@kfintech.com. KFin shall send User ID and
Password to those new Members whose e-mail
IDs are available. . VOTING AT THE AGM:
a.	The procedure for e-voting during the AGM is same as
the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting
since the Meeting is being held through VC/OAVM. b.	The e-voting window shall be activated upon instructions
of the Chairman of the Meeting during the AGM. .	
Procedure for registration and updation of email and
mobile for securities held in physical mode: c.	E-voting during the AGM is integrated with the VC/
OAVM platform and no separate login is required for
the same. Members of the Company holding shares in physical mode
are hereby notified that SEBI has mandated that all the
folios have to be KYC compliant and accordingly, asked
the shareholders to furnish their PAN, contact details, bank
account details and nomination to the Registrar and Share
Transfer Agents (RTAs). The shareholders are also required
to register the postal address with PIN and are encouraged
to register their e-mail ID. d.	Only those Members/ Shareholders, who will be present
in the AGM through VC/OAVM facility and have not cast
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-voting
and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be
eligible to vote through e-voting system in the AGM. 
Further, members holding shares in physical mode can
register/update their contact details by submitting the
requisite Form ISR- along with the supporting documents.
The aforesaid form can be downloaded from the website
of the Company and RTA at: https://www.mahindra.com/
investor-relations/reports
and
https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc/isrforms.aspx respectively. e.	Members who have already cast their votes by remote
e-voting are eligible to attend the Meeting through VC/
OAVM; however, these Members are not entitled to cast
their vote again during the Meeting. A Member can opt for
only single mode of voting i.e. through Remote e-voting
or voting through VC/ OAVM mode during the AGM.
.	The results shall be declared not later than forty-eight hours
from conclusion of the Meeting which is within the time
stipulated under the applicable laws. The results declared
along with the Scrutiniser’s Report will be placed on the
website of the Company at https://www.mahindra.com and
the website of KFin: http://evoting.kfintech.com immediately
after the results are declared and will simultaneously be
forwarded to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange
of India Limited, where Equity Shares of the Company are
listed and shall be displayed at the Registered Office as well
as at the Corporate Office of the Company. ISR Form(s) and the supporting documents can be provided
by any one of the following modes:
a.	Through ‘In Person Verification’ (IPV) - the authorized
person of the RTA shall verify the original documents
furnished by the investor and retain copy(ies) with IPV
stamping with date and initials; or
b.	Through hard copies which are self-attested, which can
be shared on the address below; or
Name .	PROCEDURE FOR REGISTERING THE EMAIL ADDRESSES
AND OBTAINING THE AGM NOTICE AND E-VOTING
INSTRUCTIONS BY THE MEMBERS WHOSE EMAIL
ADDRESSES ARE NOT REGISTERED WITH THE
DEPOSITORIES (IN CASE OF MEMBERS HOLDING
SHARES IN DEMAT FORM) OR WITH KFIN (IN CASE OF
MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES IN PHYSICAL FORM): KFIN Technologies
Limited Address Selenium Building,
Tower-B,
Plot No -,
Financial District,
Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally,
Hyderabad,
Rangareddy,
Telangana - . I. Those Members who have not yet registered their email
addresses are requested to get their email addresses
registered by following the procedure given below: Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited
Shares Department,
Mahindra Towers, 2nd Floor,
Dr. G. M. Bhosale Marg,
Worli, Mumbai – . a.	Members holding shares in demat form can get
their email ID registered by contacting their
respective DPs. b.	
Members holding shares in physical form may
register their email address and mobile number
with KFin by sending Form ISR- and other
relevant forms to KFin at Selenium, Tower-B,
Plot No. -, Gachibowli, Financial District,
Nanakramguda,
Serilingampally,
Hyderabad,
Rangareddy, Telangana India – or at the
email ID einward.ris@kfintech.com for receiving
the AGM Notice and the e-voting instructions. Detailed FAQs can be found on the link: https://ris.kfintech.
com/faq.html II. Those Members who have already registered their
email addresses are requested to keep their email
addresses validated/updated with their DPs / KFin to
enable serving of notices / documents / Annual Reports
and other communications electronically to their email
address in future. By Order of the Board c.	Through electronic mode with e-sign by following the
link: https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/isrforms.
aspx 
For more information on updating the email and mobile
detail for securities held in electronic mode, please reach
out to the respective DP(s), where the demat account is
being held. . Webcast: Your Company will be providing the facility of live webcast
of proceedings of AGM. Members who are entitled to
participate in the AGM can view the proceedings of AGM
by logging on the website of KFin at http://emeetings.
kfintech.com using their secure login credentials. Members
are encouraged to use this facility of webcast. During the
live webcast of AGM, Members may post their queries in the
message box provided on the screen. Registered Office:
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – .
CIN
: L65990MH1945PLC004558
e-mail
: investors@mahindra.com
Website : https://www.mahindra.com
Tel.
: + Mumbai, 16th May, NARAYAN SHANKAR
Company Secretary
ACS No. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Additional Information with respect to Item No. Directorships: ITEM NO. Dr. Anish Shah is the Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra Financial
Services Limited and Mahindra Logistics Limited. He is Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited and Non-Executive and Non‑Independent Director of
Mahindra Lifespace Developers Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited,
Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Limited, Mahindra Electric
Automobile Limited, Tech Mahindra Foundation and Director
& President of Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce &
Industry (FICCI). Proposal:
Dr. Anish Shah (DIN: ), the Managing Director & Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, is liable to retire by rotation
and being eligible, has offered himself for re-appointment.
Dr. Anish Shah was first appointed on the Board on 1st April, as a Whole-time Director of the Company designated as Deputy
Managing Director and Group Chief Financial Officer till 1st April, and as the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company with effect from 2nd April, till 31st March, . Dr. Anish Shah, as Managing Director & CEO of the Company serves
as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of other Subsidiary
and Associate companies of the Company, in accordance with
fulfilment of his role of having full oversight of all business
Sectors of the Group. Brief resume of Dr. Shah, age, qualifications, nature of his
expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships
between directors inter-se, names of listed entities and other
companies in which he holds directorships and memberships of
Board Committees, shareholding in the Company, the number
of Meetings of the Board attended during the year, along with
disclosure pertaining to his resignation from listed entities in the
past three years, as stipulated under Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India are stated
herein, and are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report
forming part of the Annual Report. Committee positions:
Sr. Name of the
No. Company/Entity Name of the
Committee(s) Position
Held . Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee Member Sale of Assets
Committee Member Risk Management
Committee Member Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Profile:
Dr. Shah has completed years of age. . Dr. Anish Shah is the Group CEO of the Mahindra Group and
the Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., the parent
company of the Mahindra Group. His role as Group CEO includes
oversight of all Group businesses, which employ ,+
associates across industries and + countries. His primary
focus is on nurturing a purpose-driven organization, establishing
tech leadership in each industry and value creation across
businesses. . Under Anish’s leadership, the Group is reigniting value creation
with exponential growth across multiple businesses and prudent
capital allocation. Anish believes that “purpose drives profits”.
He is the custodian of Mahindra’s Rise philosophy, of driving
positive change in the lives of our communities to enable them
to Rise and he is championing the Mahindra Group’s efforts to
play a leadership role in Women Empowerment and Sustainability.
Prior to joining the Mahindra Group, Anish was President
and CEO of GE Capital India from -, where he led the
transformation of the business, including a turnaround of its SBI
Card joint venture. His career at GE spanned years, during
which he held several leadership positions at GE Capital’s US and
global units. He has also led Bank of America's US Debit Products
business and worked with Bain & Company in Boston and Citibank
in Mumbai.
In December , Anish took charge as the President of FICCI,
one of India’s oldest and largest industry bodies. He is also a
member of the UK Investment Council, Chair of the Automotive
Governors Council (World Economic Forum), co-chair of the India
Alliance of CEOs for Climate Change (World Economic Forum) and
co-Chair of the India-Australia CEO Council. Anish has also been
ranked among the Best CEOs in Fortune India’s Best CEOs, . Tech Mahindra
Limited Member Strategic Investment
Committee Member Investment Committee Member Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee Member . Mahindra
Lifespace
Developers
Limited Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee Member . Mahindra Holidays Nomination &
& Resorts India
Remuneration
Limited
Committee Member . Mahindra Logistics Nomination &
Limited
Remuneration
Committee Member . Mahindra Electric
Automobile
Limited Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee Member Federation of
Indian Chambers
of Commerce and
Industry (FICCI) Executive Board Member Organisation & Finance
Committee Member Audit Committee Member Membership Screening
Committee Member Steering Committee Member National Executive
Committee Member . Anish holds a Ph.D. from Carnegie Mellon’s Tepper School of
Business and a Post-Graduate Diploma in Management from
the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad. His interests
include sports (particularly Cricket and American Football),
reading and travel. Mahindra &
Nomination &
Mahindra Financial Remuneration
Services Limited
Committee Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years: None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company
and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested,
financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at Item No. of the Notice. Dr. Shah has not resigned as a Director from any listed entity in
the past three years. The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item
No. of the Notice for approval of the Members. Attendance at Board Meetings:
During the year 1st April, to 31st March, , Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Dr. Anish Shah had
attended all the Meetings. ITEM NO. Proposal:
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra (DIN: ), was first appointed on
the Board on 23rd November, as a Director of the Company
and transitioned to the role of Non-Executive Chairman of the
Company with effect from 12th November, . Mr. Anand G.
Mahindra is a Director liable to retire by rotation. Remuneration:
The terms and conditions and remuneration of Dr. Shah upto
31st March, would be governed as per the approval granted
by the Members of the Company at the Annual General Meetings
held on 7th August, and 4th August, and from 1st April, to 31st March, as per the approval of the Members at
this Annual General Meeting. At the Seventy Fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company held
on 6th August, (“75th AGM”), based on the recommendation
of the Board of Directors and the Governance, Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”), the Shareholders had inter
alia approved payment of Total Remuneration to Mr. Anand
G. Mahindra as Non-Executive Chairman of the Company for a
period of years with effect from 12th November, as under: The remuneration paid to Dr. Shah during the Financial Year
- (Including perquisite value of ESOPs exercised) is
Rs. ,. lakhs.
Other information: Total Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum split as under: Dr. Shah holds ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the Company. (a)	Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum by way of
monthly payment and Dr. Shah is not debarred from holding the office of Director
pursuant to any Order issued by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (SEBI) or any other authority. (b)	Commission of Rs. ,,, per annum.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is instrumental in defining and enhancing
the Mahindra brand. His unwavering commitment to providing
feedback and guidance on critical matters, along with his vast
experience, significantly bolsters the Company's leadership.
As the Group embarks on ambitious strategic growth plans, his
role becomes even more vital, requiring his active participation
in key decision-making processes. Addressing these intricate
challenges will demand both his expertise and an increased
investment of time. Save and except Dr. Shah, and his relatives to the extent of their
shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of the other
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of the Company and
their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially
or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at Item No. of the
Notice. Dr. Shah is not inter-se related to any other Director /
KMP of the Company. In his capacity as a mentor and advisor, Mr. Mahindra
supports the Managing Director and Senior Management with
a strong emphasis on strategic planning, risk management
and external relations. Recognizing these contributions and
following the recommendation of the GNRC, the Board of
Directors at its Meeting held on 16th May, , approved a
revision in the Total Remuneration to be paid to Mr. Anand G.
Mahindra for a period from 1st April, upto 11th November,
, being the remainder period for which his remuneration was
earlier approved by Members at the 75th AGM, as follows: The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item
No. of the Notice for approval of the Members.
Explanatory Statement in respect of the Special Business
pursuant to section of the Companies Act, ITEM NO. Proposal
The Board of Directors, at its Meeting held on 16th May, ,
upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, approved
the appointment of Messrs D. C. Dave & Co., Cost Accountants
having Firm Registration Number , as Cost Auditors of
the Company for conducting the audit of the cost records of the
Company, for the Financial Year ending 31st March, , at a
remuneration of Rs. ,, (Rupees Nine Lakhs Fifty Thousand
only) (plus Goods and Services Tax and reimbursement of out of
pocket expenses). Total Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum split as under:
(a)	Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum by way of
monthly payment and
(b) Commission of Rs. ,,, per annum. Except for the revision in the Total Remuneration amount, all
other terms and conditions of remuneration, as approved earlier
by the Members at the 75th AGM remain unchanged and continue
to be effective. Pursuant to section of the Companies Act, read with
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, , Members of the
Company are required to ratify the remuneration to be paid to
the cost auditors of the Company. The above remuneration will be paid to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra
even if it exceeds one percent of the net profits of the Company
in accordance with sections and of the Companies Act,
, including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s)
thereof and notwithstanding the limits approved by the Members
of the Company for payment of remuneration to Non-Executive
Directors of the Company from time to time. Where in any
financial year during the period from st April, upto
11th November, , the Company has no profits or its profits Accordingly, consent of the Members is sought for passing an
Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No. of the Notice for
ratification of the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors for
conducting the audit of the cost records of the Company for the
Financial Year ending 31st March, . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED are inadequate, the Company may pay the above remuneration to
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra, Non-Executive Chairman of the Company
as the minimum remuneration, subject to receipt of the requisite
approvals, if any. Mr. Mahindra has been conferred with the Padma Bhushan Award
(), India’s third-highest civilian honour, for his contribution to
the nation in the field of ‘Trade and Industry’. He has been named
in Barron’s List of Top CEOs worldwide () and Fortune
Magazine’s list of the World’s Greatest Leaders (). He was
a recipient of the Best Transformational Leader Award by the
Asian Centre for Corporate Governance & Sustainability ().
He was appointed ‘Knight in the National Order of the Legion
of Honour’ by the President of the French Republic () and
conferred the ‘Grand Officer of the Order of the Star of Italy’ by
the President of Italy (). Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation ()(ca) of Securities
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
Requirements) Regulations, (“Listing Regulations"), approval
of the Members of the Company by way of a Special Resolution
is required to be obtained every year for payment of Annual
Remuneration to a single Non-Executive Director exceeding
fifty percent of the total annual remuneration payable to all
Non-Executive Directors, giving details of remuneration thereof. Mr. Mahindra is an incisive business commentator and humanitarian
with over million followers on Twitter. Among his many social
change initiatives is the Nanhi Kali programme, which, for the last
two decades, has provided over , underprivileged girls
access to high-quality education. Mr. Mahindra is the Chairman of
the Board of Naandi Foundation, India’s leading NGO focused on
educating girls, skilling youth and providing sustainable livelihoods
to small farmers through biodynamic agriculture. Mr. Mahindra
also serves on the Founders Board of The Rise Fund, a $ billion
impact fund. As the remuneration payable to Mr. Anand G. Mahindra in the
Financial Year - is likely to exceed fifty percent of the
total annual remuneration payable to all Non-Executive Directors
of the Company, consent of the Members is sought for passing a
Special Resolution as set out at Item No. of the Notice.
Brief resume of Mr. Mahindra, age, qualification, nature of his
expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships
between directors inter-se, names of listed entities and other
companies in which he holds directorships and memberships/
chairmanships of Board Committees, shareholding in the
Company, the number of Meetings of the Board attended during
the year, along with disclosure pertaining to his resignation from
listed entities in the past three years, as stipulated under the
Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India are
stated herein. Some of these are also provided in the Corporate
Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report. He is a strong votary of arts and culture. Mahindra Blues,
Mahindra Excellence in Theatre Awards, Mahindra Kabira,
Mahindra Independence Rock, and Mahindra Sanatkada celebrate
and nurture music, theatre culture, art and history in India.
Mr. Mahindra is the member of the Global Advisory Council of the
Lincoln Center, New York and has previously served on the Board
of Trustees of the Natural History Museum of London. Committee positions:
Sr. Name of the
No. Company Name of the Committee(s) . Strategic Investment Committee Chairman Mr. Mahindra has completed years of age.
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra was first appointed as a Director on the
Board of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited on 23rd November, .
He then took over as Deputy Managing Director of Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited in at a time when the turnover was
US$ million. He initiated a comprehensive change programme
to make the Company an efficient and aggressive competitor in
the new liberalised economic environment in India. As Non-Executive Chairman, Mr. Anand Mahindra serves as
mentor and sounding board for the Managing Director and Senior
Management especially in the areas of strategic planning, risk
mitigation and external interface. He continues to play an important
role in epitomising and building Brand Mahindra. He is available to
provide feedback and counsel to the Managing Director and Senior
Management on key issues facing the Company. In April , he was appointed as Managing Director of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and in January, given the
additional responsibility of Vice Chairman. In August, ,
he was appointed as Chairman and designated as Chairman &
Managing Director of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. In November,
, Mr. Mahindra was re-designated as Executive Chairman of
Mahindra & Mahindra Limited. Mr. Mahindra graduated Magna Cum Laude from Harvard
College () and secured an MBA from the Harvard Business
School (). He made a generous endowment in to the
Harvard Humanities Center which is now known as the Mahindra
Humanities Centre at Harvard. In he was bestowed the
Harvard Business School’s Alumni Achievement Award and in he became the first Indian recipient of the Harvard Alumni
Association’s Harvard Medal. Mr. Anand Mahindra’s tenure has seen the Group expand
domestically and internationally into a range of major industrial
sectors from automobiles and agriculture to IT and aerospace.
He has served on several influential international bodies including
the UN Global Compact Board, Global Board of Advisors of the
Council on Foreign Relations, World Bank Group’s Advisory
Board for Doing Business, the International Advisory Council of
Singapore’s Economic Development Board, and the Sustainable
Markets Initiative. He has been the President of The Confederation
of Indian Industry and served on the boards of the National Stock
Exchange of India and the National Council of Applied Economic
Research. He is currently on the board of Invest India, the
National Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency, and the
Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India. He is also a member
of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research Society. Directorships:
Mr. Anand G. Mahindra is the Chairman of Mahindra & Mahindra
Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Mahindra Holdings Limited and Classic
Legends Private Limited, and Director of Prudential Management &
Services Private Limited, The Mahindra United World College of India,
Tech Mahindra Foundation, Araku Originals Private Limited, Naandi
Community Water Services Private Limited, Breach Candy Hospital
Trust, Invest India and The Indian and Eastern Engineer Company
Private Limited. He is also Part-time non-official Director of the
Central Board of the Reserve Bank of India. Mahindra
& Mahindra
Limited Position
held Sale of Assets Committee Chairman Corporate Social Responsibility
Committee Member Stakeholders’ Relationship
Committee Member (iv) P
 ecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with
the Company, or relationship with the managerial
personnel, if any: Mr. Mahindra has not resigned as a Director from any listed entity
in the past three years. Besides the remuneration proposed to be paid to him,
Mr. Anand Mahindra does not have any other pecuniary
relationship with the Company or relationship with the
managerial personnel. Attendance at Board Meetings:
During the year 1st April, to 31st March, , Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Mr. Mahindra had
attended all the Meetings. III. The additional information as required under Schedule V to the
Companies Act, , had been provided in the explanatory
statement to Resolution No. of the Notice of the 75th AGM
and shall remain same, except to the extent being updated and
as provided below:
I. II. Gross Turnover & Income ,,. Net Profit as per Statement of Profit &
Loss (After Tax) ,. Computation of Net Profit in accordance
with Section of the Companies Act, ,. Net Worth ,. (ii)  ast remuneration during the financial year ended
P
31st March, : Rs. lakhs (including sitting fees
of Rs. lakhs) (ii) Remuneration proposed: IV. The conditions set out in Part-I of Schedule V to the Act as
also conditions set out under sub-section of section of the Act are not applicable to a Non-Executive Director.
The Board is of the view that Mr. Anand G. Mahindra’s knowledge
and experience will continue to be of immense benefit and value
to the Company and pursuant to the recommendation of the
GNRC, recommends his revised remuneration as a Non-Executive
Chairman of the Company for a period from 1st April, to
11th November, to the Members for approval.
Other information:
Mr. Mahindra holds ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company.
Mr. Mahindra is not debarred from holding the office of Director
pursuant to any Order issued by the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (SEBI) or any other authority. 
Total Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum
split as under:
(a)	Remuneration of Rs. ,,, per annum by
way of monthly payment and (b)	Commission of Rs. ,,, per annum Not applicable as the Company has adequate profits. Disclosures: The information and disclosures of the remuneration
package of all Directors have been mentioned in the Annual
Report in the Corporate Governance Report Section under
the Heading “Remuneration to Directors”. The remuneration proposed to be paid to Mr. Anand G.
Mahindra, Non-Executive Chairman for a period from
1st April, upto 11th November, is given
below: teps taken or proposed to be taken for
S
improvement and (iii) E
 xpected increase in productivity and profits in
measurable terms: Information about the appointee:
(i) Reasons of loss or inadequate profits: 
Not applicable, as the Company has posted a net
profit after tax of Rs. ,. crores during the
year ended st March, . (i)	Financial performance based on given indicators –
as per audited financial results for the year ended
31st March, :
Rs. in crores Other Information:
(i) General Information: Particulars  omparative remuneration profile with respect
C
to industry, size of the company, profile of the
position and person (in case of expatriates the
relevant details would be with respect to the
country of his origin): 
Taking into consideration the size of the Company,
the profile of Mr. Anand Mahindra, the responsibilities
shouldered by him and the industry benchmarks, the
remuneration proposed to be paid to the Non-Executive
Chairman is commensurate with the remuneration
packages paid to similar senior level counterpart(s) in
other companies. Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years: In , Mr. Mahindra founded the Pro Kabaddi League to
popularize the ancient and popular Indian game of kabaddi.
The league, televised through the STAR television network, is
aimed at creating a new popular fan following for Kabbadi as an
antithesis to cricket. Profile: (iii) Save and except Mr. Mahindra, and his relatives to the extent
of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of
the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of the
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at
Item No. of the Notice. Mr. Mahindra is not inter-se related to
any other Director / KMP of the Company. Except for the revision in the Total Remuneration
amount, all other terms and conditions of remuneration,
as approved earlier by the Members at the 75th AGM
remain unchanged and continue to be effective. The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at Item
No. of the Notice for approval of the Members. Mr. Mahindra, being the promoter, is not entitled to any
stock options of the Company. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED ITEM NO. : Committee positions: Proposal:
The Board of Directors of the Company at its Meeting held on
14th February, , pursuant to the recommendation of the
Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”)
has approved appointment of Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo (DIN: )
as an Additional Director (Non-Executive and Non-Independent) of
the Company representing Life Insurance Corporation of India with
effect from 17th May, to hold office up to the date of the next
Annual General Meeting of the Company pursuant to section of
the Companies Act, (“the Act”), and thereafter, subject to the
approval of the Members of the Company, as a Non-Executive and
Non-Independent Director of the Company, liable to retire by rotation. Sr. Name of the
No. Company/Entity Name of the
Committee(s) Position held . Executive Committee Member Investment Committee Member Audit Committee Special Invitee Policyholders
Protection Committee Member Building Advisory
Committee Member National
Insurance
Academy, Pune Academic Council Member Governing Board Member . Insurance
Institute of India Council Member . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Strategic Investment
Committee Member
(appointed w.e.f.
17th May, ) . The Company has received a notice in writing from a Member
under section of the Act, proposing his candidature for the
office of Director of the Company.
Brief resume of Mr. Bhanoo, age, qualification, nature of his
expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships
between directors inter-se, names of listed entities and other
companies in which he holds directorships and memberships of
Board Committees, shareholding in the Company, the number
of Meetings of the Board attended during the year, along with
disclosure pertaining to his resignation from listed entities in the
past three years, as stipulated under the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India are stated
herein and are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report
forming part of the Annual Report. Life Insurance
Corporation of
India Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years:
Mr. Bhanoo has not resigned as a Director from any listed entity
in the past three years.
Attendance at Board Meetings during 1st April, to
31st March, :
Not Applicable since Mr. Bhanoo has been appointed as a Director
with effect from 17th May, .
Remuneration: Profile: Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo would be entitled to sitting fees for attending
the Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committee(s) thereof.
In addition, he would be entitled to commission as determined
each year by the Board of Directors within the limits approved
by the Members of the Company for the Non-Executive Directors
of the Company. The sitting fees and commission will be payable
to Life Insurance Corporation of India. Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo has completed years of age.
Mr. Bhanoo has taken charge as Managing Director of Life
Insurance Corporation of India (“LIC”) on 20th July, .
He joined the Corporation as Special Batch Direct Recruit Officer
in October, . He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in History
(Honors) from Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla. Other information:
Mr. Bhanoo does not hold any Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company. He has a varied and rich marketing experience. He served the
Corporation in various roles as Zonal Manager (Central Zone),
Additional Director, Zonal Training Centre (Bhopal), Regional
Manager (P&IR), North Zone (Delhi). He was In-charge of
Bangalore – I and Shimla Divisions steering the Corporation
through a challenging climate and leading to consistent growth of
business under dynamic market conditions. Wherever he has been
posted, he fostered a culture of human resource development
and empowerment, resulting in a highly motivated and skilled
workforce, committed to the Corporation’s mission and values. The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed by
Mr. Bhanoo are aligned to those identified by GNRC and complete
details of the same are provided in the Corporate Governance
Section of the Annual Report of the Company for the financial
year ended 31st March, .
Mr. Bhanoo is not disqualified from being appointed as Director
in terms of section of the Act and has given his consent
to act as a Director. He is not debarred from holding the office
of Director pursuant to any Order issued by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any other authority. As Chief (Marketing-SBA), he looked after the Marketing portfolio
of Senior Business Associates & Life Insurance Corporation
Associates as well, with a focus on revolutionizing marketing
activities and empowering them. The Board is of the view that Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo’s knowledge and
experience will be of immense benefit and value to the Company
and pursuant to the recommendation of the GNRC, recommends
his appointment to the Members. He likes to meet people and often motivates them by sharing his
experiences. The Articles of Association of the Company are available
for inspection by the Members in electronic form as per the
instructions provided in the Note No. of this Notice. Directorships:
Mr. Sat Pal Bhanoo is the Managing Director of Life Insurance
Corporation of India (LIC) and also serves as a Director on the
Board of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of Bangladesh Limited. Save and except Mr. Bhanoo, and his relatives to the extent
of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of
the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of the Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at
Item No. of the Notice. Mr. Bhanoo is not related to any other
Director / KMP of the Company. •	Corporate Governance: Orchestrating corporate venture capital
initiatives and managing conglomerate corporate center roles.
•	
Human Resources Strategy: Senior Leadership Transitions
and CEO Compensation Strategies. The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item
No. of the Notice for approval of the Members. •	Technology and Innovation: Platform Business Models and
Artificial Intelligence Product Development. ITEM NO. :
Proposal: Academic and Institutional Engagements: The Board of Directors of the Company at its Meeting held on
14th February, , pursuant to the recommendation of the
Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”)
has approved the appointment of Mr. Ranjan Pant (DIN: )
as an Additional Director (Non-Executive and Non-Independent)
of the Company with effect from 17th May, to hold office up
to the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company
pursuant to section of the Companies Act, (“the Act”),
and thereafter, subject to the approval of the Members of the
Company, as a Non-Executive and Non-Independent Director of
the Company, liable to retire by rotation. •	IIM Indore: Board of Governors and Chairman of the
Personnel Committee.
• Mahindra University, Hyderabad: Governing Body. •	K C Mahindra Education Trust: Jury Panel Member for
Postgraduate Scholarships.
Directorships:
Mr. Ranjan Pant has contributed as a Board Director and
Committee Member in leading corporations, including HDFC Life
Insurance Company Limited, DSP Blackrock Investments Private
Limited and Schneider Electric Infrastructure Limited. The Company has received notice in writing from a Member under
section of the Act, proposing his candidature for the office of
Director of the Company. Mr. Ranjan Pant is an Independent Director and Chairman of
Schneider Electric President Systems Limited, Non-Executive and
Non-Independent Director of Mahindra Accelo Limited, Mahindra
Auto Steel Private Limited and a Director of Point RP Consulting
Private Limited (OPC). Brief resume of Mr. Pant, age, qualification, nature of his expertise in
specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships between directors
inter-se, names of listed entities and other companies in which he holds
directorships and memberships/chairmanships of Board Committees,
shareholding in the Company, the number of Meetings of the Board
attended during the year, along with disclosure pertaining to his
resignation from listed entities in the past three years, as stipulated
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, and Secretarial
Standard on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company
Secretaries of India are stated herein and are also provided in the
Corporate Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report. Committee positions:
Sr. Name of the
No. Company
. Mahindra
Accelo Limited
. Schneider
Electric
President
Systems
Limited Profile:
Mr. Ranjan Pant has completed years of age.
Mr. Ranjan Pant is a CEO Advisor and consultant specializing in
global strategy and change management. With a tenure spanning
over three decades, he has leveraged his expertise across diverse
industries and international conglomerates. . Mahindra
& Mahindra
Limited Risk Management
Committee Education:
Mr. Pant has completed his Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering
(Honours) from BITS, Pilani and MBA in Finance from The Wharton
School, University of Pennsylvania. Position Held
Chairman
Chairman
Chairman
Chairman
Member
Member
(appointed w.e.f.
17th May, )
Member
(appointed w.e.f.
8th August, ) Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years:
Mr. Ranjan Pant’s tenure as a Director of Schneider Electric
Infrastructure Limited ended on 21st May, . Mr. Pant has not
resigned as a Director from any listed entity in the past three years. Career Highlights:
Mr. Ranjan Pant has spearheaded the energy and utilities
practice and provided Strategic Advisory Services at Bain &
Co., Management Consultants. He held the position of Director
of internal consulting, focusing on Operational Excellence and
Mergers & Acquisitions in General Electric Company. Attendance at Board Meetings during 1st April, to
31st March, :
Not Applicable since Mr. Pant has been appointed as a Director
with effect from 17th May, . Key Areas of Expertise:
•	Strategic Planning: Portfolio strategy,
valuation and capital investment timing. Name of the
Committee(s)
Nomination &
Remuneration Committee
Audit Committee
Stakeholders Relationship
Committee
Risk Management
Committee
Nomination and
Remuneration Committee
Strategic Investment
Committee Remuneration:
pricing-based Mr. Ranjan Pant would be entitled to sitting fees for attending
the Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committee(s) thereof.
In addition, he would be entitled to commission as determined
each year by the Board of Directors within the limits approved
by the Members of the Company for the Non-Executive Directors
of the Company. •	Operational
Management:
Post-merger
integrations,
enhancing manufacturing productivity and accelerating new
product introductions. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Other information: In line with this strategic approach, the appointment of Ms. Warrior
reflects the Company’s commitment to long term sustainability
and seamless leadership transitions. Her appointment which is in
line with the requirements of the Company Policy on “Appointment
of Directors and Senior Management and Succession Planning for
orderly succession to the Board and Senior Management” is a
proactive stance which underscores the Company’s dedication
to maintaining a dynamic and resilient board, poised to navigate
challenges and seize opportunities on the horizon. Mr. Pant does not hold any Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company.
The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed by
Mr. Pant are aligned to those identified by GNRC and complete
details of the same are provided in the Corporate Governance
Section of the Annual Report of the Company for the financial
year ended 31st March, . The Company has received a notice in writing from a Member
under section of the Act proposing the candidature of
Ms. Padmasree Warrior for the office of Director of the Company. Mr. Pant is not disqualified from being appointed as Director in
terms of section of the Act and has given his consent to
act as a Director. He is not debarred from holding the office
of Director pursuant to any Order issued by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any other authority. Brief resume of Ms. Warrior, age, qualification, nature of her expertise
in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships between
directors inter-se, names of listed entities and other companies in
which she holds directorships and memberships of Board Committees
alongwith the listed companies from which she has resigned in
the past three years, shareholding in the Company, the number
of Meetings of the Board attended during the year, along with
disclosure pertaining to her resignation from listed entities in the
past three years, as stipulated under the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, (“Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard
on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries
of India are stated herein and are also provided in the Corporate
Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report. The Board is of the view that Mr. Pant’s knowledge and
experience will be of immense benefit and value to the Company
and pursuant to the recommendation of the GNRC, recommends
his appointment to the Members.
The Articles of Association of the Company are available
for inspection by the Members in electronic form as per the
instructions provided in the Note No. of this Notice.
Save and except Mr. Pant, and his relatives to the extent of their
shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of the other
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of the Company and
their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially
or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at Item No. of the Notice.
Mr. Pant is not related to any other Director / KMP of the Company.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item
No. of the Notice for approval of the Members.
ITEM NO. :
Proposal:
The Board of Directors of the Company at its Meeting held on 14th
February, , pursuant to the recommendation of the Governance,
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”), has approved
the appointment of Ms. Padmasree Warrior (DIN: ) as
an Additional Director (Independent and Non‑Executive) of the
Company with effect from 17th May, to hold office up to the
date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company pursuant
to section of the Companies Act, (“the Act”) and subject
to approval of the Members at the said Annual General Meeting,
to hold office as an Independent Director, not liable to retire by
rotation, for a term of (five) consecutive years commencing from
17th May, to 16th May, (both days inclusive).
The GNRC evaluated profiles of various candidates as an
Independent Director of the Company was reaching end of
tenure in the year .
The GNRC had identified skills, expertise and competencies required
by the Board for the effective functioning of the Company. After considering qualifications, skillsets, experience, independence,
knowledge, ability to devote sufficient time, the GNRC selected and
recommended to the Board, the appointment of Ms. Padmasree
Warrior as Independent Director of the Company. Name of the
Committee(s) Position
Held . Spotify
Technology SA Audit Committee Member . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Strategic Investment
Committee Member
(with effect
from 17th
May, ) Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee Save and except Ms. Warrior, and her relatives to the extent
of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of
the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of the
Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned or
interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at
Item No. of the Notice. Ms. Warrior is not related to any other
Director / KMP of the Company.
The Board recommends the Special Resolution set out at Item
No. of the Notice for approval of the Members. Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years: ITEM NOS. & Ms. Padmasree Warrior left the Board of Directors of Microsoft Inc.
with effect from 7th December, after deciding not to seek
re-election. Ms. Warrior has not resigned as a Director from any
listed entity in the past three years. Mr. Haigreve Khaitan (DIN: ) and Ms. Shikha Sharma
(DIN: ) were appointed as Independent Directors
on the Board of your Company pursuant to the provisions of
section of the Companies Act, (“the Act”) read with
the Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors)
Rules, and Regulation of the Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, (“Listing Regulations”), by the Shareholders
at the 73rd Annual General Meeting of the Company held on
8th August, . They hold office as Independent Directors of
the Company upto 7th August, (“first term”) in line with
section () and () of the Act. Proposal: Attendance at Board Meetings during 1st April, to
31st March, : Remuneration: Ms. Padmasree Warrior is the Founder, President and CEO of Fable,
a mobile-first company that brings stories for everyone, anywhere.
Previously, she was the Chief Executive Officer of NIO U.S., Chief
Development Officer and Board Member of NIO Inc., a manufacturer
of smart, electric, and autonomous vehicles. In this role she scaled
the company from start-up to a successful IPO NYSE: NIO in years. Ms. Warrior would be entitled to sitting fees for attending the
Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees thereof. In
addition, she would be entitled to commission as determined each
year by the Board of Directors within the limits approved by the
Members of the Company for the Non-Executive Directors of the
Company. She holds a Bachelor of Technology degree in Chemical
Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology in New Delhi,
India and a Master of Science degree in Chemical Engineering
from Cornell University, New York, U.S. Sr. Name of the
No. Company/Entity Ms. Padmasree Warrior has completed years of age. She has also served on government initiatives, industry advisory
boards as well as charitable and community organizations. She
received the United States Pan Asian American Chamber of
Commerce’s Excellence Award and YWCA Metropolitan Chicago’s
Outstanding Woman Achievement Award. In , she was
inducted into the WITI Hall of Fame. The process of shortlisting and selection of the new Independent
Director was carried out and concluded by GNRC members who
were Independent Directors and not considered interested in
such proposal. The Articles of Association of the Company are available
for inspection by the Members in electronic form as per the
instructions provided in the Note No. of this Notice. Committee positions: Not Applicable since Ms. Warrior has been appointed as a Director
with effect from 17th May, . She has been widely recognized for her creative, visionary
leadership. Forbes has named her one of “The World’s Most Powerful Women” for three years running. In , The
International Alliance for Women gave her the World of Difference
Award. In , Business Insider called her one of the “ Most
Influential Women in Wireless”. The Wall Street Journal has called
her one of “ Women to Watch”. Fast Company included her
among the “ Most Creative People in Business”. The Economic
Times listed her as “the 11th Most Influential Global Indian.” A copy of the draft letter of appointment of Ms. Padmasree
Warrior setting out terms and conditions of appointment is
available for inspection by the Members in electronic form as per
the instructions provided in Note No. of this Notice. Ms. Padmasree Warrior served as a Director on the Board of
Microsoft Inc. from - and currently serves as a Director
on the Board of Spotify Technology SA. and as Director and CEO
of Fable Group Inc. Profile: Prior to NIO, she served as the Chief Technology & Strategy Officer
(CTSO) for Cisco until September . In this capacity she was
charged with aligning the company’s technology and business strategy
to business results. She oversaw corporate strategy, mergers,
acquisitions, venture investments, and strategic partnerships. Before
that, she was the SVP and GM for Cisco Enterprise segment and
co-led Cisco’s worldwide engineering organization. Prior to Cisco, she
was EVP and CTO at Motorola. Under her leadership, Motorola was
awarded the U.S. National Medal of Technology. Process & Basis of Appointment: Directorships: Ms. Warrior does not hold any Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company. The Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”)
at its Meeting held on 15th May, on the basis of performance
evaluation of Independent Directors and taking into account the
external business environment, the business knowledge, acumen,
experience and the substantial contribution made by Mr. Haigreve
Khaitan and Ms. Shikha Sharma during their tenure, has recommended
to the Board that their continued association as Independent
Directors of the Company would be beneficial to the Company. The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed by
Ms. Warrior are aligned to those identified by GNRC and complete
details of the same are provided in the Corporate Governance
Section of the Annual Report of the Company for the financial
year ended 31st March, . The performance evaluation of Independent Directors were based
on various criteria, inter-alia, including attendance at Board and
Committee Meetings, skill, experience, ability to challenge views
of others in a constructive manner, knowledge acquired with
regard to the Company’s business, understanding of industry and
global trends etc. Ms. Padmasree Warrior is not disqualified from being appointed
as Director in terms of section of the Act and has given
her consent to act as a Director. The Company has received
declarations from Ms. Padmasree Warrior stating that she meets
the criteria of independence as prescribed under sub-section ()
of section of the Act and Listing Regulations. Ms. Warrior is
not debarred from holding the office of Director pursuant to any
Order issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI)
or any other authority. Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma possess the core skills/expertise/
competencies identified in the Companys’ business and sectors for
it to function effectively. Details of the skills possessed by them are
included in the Corporate Governance Report which forms a part of
the Annual Report for the financial year ended 31st March, . Other information: Based on the above and the performance evaluation of
Independent Directors, the Board at its Meeting held on 16th May, has recommended the re-appointment of Mr. Haigreve
Khaitan (DIN: ) and Ms. Shikha Sharma (DIN: ),
as Independent Directors of the Company, not liable to retire by
rotation, to hold office for a second term, as under: In the opinion of the Board, Ms. Padamsree Warrior, fulfils the
conditions for appointment as Independent Director as specified
in the Act and the Listing Regulations and is independent of the
management.
The Board is of the view that Ms. Padmasree Warrior’s knowledge
and experience will be of immense benefit and value to the Company
and, therefore, recommends her appointment to the Members. Sr. Name of the Director
No. Period of Second Term Mr. Haigreve Khaitan Ms. Shikha Sharma Five consecutive years commencing
from 8th August, to 7th August, (both days inclusive) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED The Company has received notices in writing from a Member
under section of the Act, proposing the candidature of
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan and Ms. Shikha Sharma, for the office of
Directors of the Company.
Brief resume of Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma, age, qualification,
nature of their expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure
of relationships between directors inter-se, names of listed
entities and other companies in which they hold directorships
and memberships/ chairpersonships of Board Committees,
shareholding in the Company, the number of Meetings of the
Board attended during the year, along with disclosure pertaining
to their resignation from listed entities in the past three years,
as stipulated under the Listing Regulations and Secretarial
Standard on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company
Secretaries of India are stated herein and are also provided in the
Corporate Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report. Directorships: Remuneration: Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is an Independent Director of Mahindra
& Mahindra Limited, Reliance Industries Limited, Jio Platforms
Limited, CEAT Limited, JSW Steel Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited,
Borosil Renewables Limited, Dalmia Bharat Limited and Director
of New Democratic Electoral Trust, Laxman AG, Interfloat
Corporation and V S Trustee Private Limited. Mr. Khaitan would be entitled to sitting fees for attending the
Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees thereof. In
addition, he would be entitled to commission as determined each
year by the Board of Directors within the limits approved by the
Members of the Company for the Non-Executive Directors of the
Company. Committee positions:
Sr. Name of the
No. Company Name of the Committee(s) Position
Held . Stakeholders Relationship
Committee
Governance, Nomination &
Remuneration Committee
Sale of Assets Committee Chairman Audit Committee Member Risk Management
Committee Member Stakeholders Relationship
Committee Chairman Securities Allotment
Committee Chairman Audit Committee Member Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee Member Investment Committee Member Audit Committee Member Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member Acquisition Oversight
Committee Member Securities Issue Committee Member Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Mr. Haigreve Khaitan:
Profile:
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan has completed years of age.
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan is the Partner of Khaitan & Co. He is
responsible for the Firm’s strategic growth and development.
Under his guidance, Khaitan & Co has grown to become India’s
largest full-service law firm and the most advanced legal
institution in the country. . Tech Mahindra
Limited With over years of professional experience, Mr. Haigreve
Khaitan has led some of the most high-profile and challenging
matters in India across industries, be it for companies, financial
institutions and Boards of Directors.
. As a strategic advisor, Mr. Khaitan is often brought onboard to
devise Innovative Commercial Solutions to solve complex legal and
regulatory matters, including Mergers and Acquisitions, Restructurings
and Insolvencies, Structured Financing as well as Critical disputes,
Governance challenges and white-collar crime matters.
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan regularly participates in high-level policymaking bodies, including recently as a Member of the Competition
Commission of India’s Committee for the Digital Competition
Act, a Member of the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s
Committee on Fair Market Conduct and a Member of the
Industry Standard Forum (FICCI, CII, ASSOCHAM) for setting
implementation standard for LODR provisions.
He has been consistently recommended by the world’s leading
accreditation bodies as one of the most prominent lawyers in the
country, describing him as an “outstanding lawyer” who is “extremely
good and very sharp when it comes to large transactions”. Borosil
Renewables
Limited Member
Member . Reliance
Industries Limited Audit Committee Member . JSW Steel Limited Audit Committee Member Share Allotment Committee Member JSWSL ESOP Committee Member Audit Committee Member . Jio Platforms
Limited Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years: Mr. Haigreve Khaitan has been recognized as an “Eminent
Practitioner” by Chambers and Partners for Corporate M&A and
Private Equity and “Band Lawyer” for Private Wealth Law. Legal ranked him in “Hall of Fame” for Corporate and M&A and
Recommended Lawyer for Private Client practice and Private
Equity and Investment Funds, Who’s Who Legal – Global Elite
Thought Leader for M&A, recognized as Elite practitioner by Asia
law Leading Lawyers, recognized as Market Leader for Banking and
M&A by IFLR and A – List lawyer by India Business Law Journal. Mr. Haigreve Khaitan ceased to be an Independent Director of
Inox Leisure Limited on 6th February, upon its amalgamation
with PVR Limited (re-named as PVR Inox Limited).
He ceased to be an Independent Director of Torrent
Pharmaceuticals Limited and PVR Inox Limited with effect from
1st April, and 10th February, respectively, upon
completion of his tenure. He has not resigned as a Director from
any listed entity in the past three years. He has also received In-House Community Counsels Awards as
External Counsel of the Year , Asian Legal Business as one
of the top M&A lawyers in Asia and RSG India Award for the
Emerging Leaders of the Year . Attendance at Board Meetings:
During the year April, to March, , Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Mr. Khaitan had
attended all the Meetings.
st Mr. Haigreve Khaitan has pursued LL.B. from Kolkata University. st She is an advisor to Piramal Enterprises Limited, Billionbrains
Garage Ventures Private Limited (“Groww Group”), Bahaar
Foundation - a unit of Akshati Charitable Trust, McKinsey &
Company Singapore Pte Ltd and a Member of the Board of
Governors of IIM, Lucknow. She is also a consultant to Google
India Digital Services Private Limited.
Committee positions: The sitting fees during the Financial Year - amounting to
Rs. . lakhs have been paid to Khaitan & Co., in which Mr.
Haigreve Khaitan is a Partner.
However, going forward both sitting fees and commission
[including commission for the Financial Year - amounting
to Rs. lakhs] will be paid to Mr. Haigreve Khaitan.
Professional fees for the year under review to Khaitan & Co.,
(Mumbai and Kolkata), Advocates & Solicitors and Khaitan & Co.
LLP, Advocates and Solicitors, in which Mr. Haigreve Khaitan, NonExecutive and Independent Director is a Partner, amounted to
Rs. . lakhs and Rs. . lakhs (including out of pocket
expenses), respectively. The fees received by Khaitan & Co.,
(Mumbai and Kolkata) and Khaitan & Co. LLP from the Company,
its Subsidiary or Associate companies do not exceed ten per cent
or more of the gross turnover of Khaitan & Co., (Mumbai and
Kolkata) and Khaitan & Co. LLP, respectively. Sr. Name of the
No. Company/Entity Name of the
Committee(s) Position
Held . Audit Committee Member Governance, Nomination &
Remuneration Committee Member Risk Management
Committee Member Strategic Investment
Committee Member Investment Committee Chairperson Risk Management
Committee Chairperson Nomination and
Remuneration Committee Member Nomination and
Remuneration Committee Chairperson Audit Committee Member Corporate Social
Responsibility and
Sustainability Committee Member Risk Management
Committee Member Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories
Limited Risk Management
Committee Chairperson Audit Committee Member Piramal
Enterprises
Limited Risk Management
Committee Chairperson Corporate Social
Responsibility Committee Chairperson Financial Services
Approval Committee Member Mahindra Electric
Automobile
Limited Nomination &
Remuneration Committee Chairperson Audit Committee Member IIM Lucknow Nomination Committee Chairperson . Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Tech Mahindra
Limited Ms. Shikha Sharma:
Profile: . Ms. Shikha Sharma has completed years of age. Tata Consumer
Products Limited Ms. Shikha Sharma holds Post Graduate Diploma in Management
from IIM, Ahmedabad, Post Graduate Diploma in Software
Technology from National Center for Software Technology and
B.A. (Hons.) in Economics.
She was the Managing Director & CEO of Axis Bank, India's
third largest private sector bank, from June, to December
. During her tenure as Managing Director & CEO, Axis Bank
witnessed multiple growth in the network, market capitalization
& in consumer lending business and transformed Axis Bank into a
digital leader in mobile banking and digital payments. . She was the founder Managing Director & CEO of ICICI Personal
Financial Services from May, to December, , during
which she founded ICICI Bank’s retail lending business. She was
a founding team member of ICICI Securities in joint venture with
JP Morgan. . Ms. Sharma was the Managing Director and CEO of ICICI Prudential
Life Insurance Company from December, to June, during which she founded and scaled the largest private life
insurance company in India. . She has deep understanding of business through data and
analytics and has ability to build businesses on customer insight
and tech execution as well as hire, groom and develop strong
leaders. . She featured in the most powerful women in Business by
Fortune, Top women in finance by Finance Asia and as Banker
of the Year by Business Standard. She has also received AIMA
JRD Tata Corporate Leadership and Outstanding Businesswoman
of the Year by CNBC TV18 Awards. Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years:
Ms. Shikha Sharma resigned as a Director of Ambuja Cements
Limited on 16th September, . Further, she ceased to be an
Independent Director of Tata Coffee Limited on 1st January, pursuant to its merger with Tata Consumer Products Limited. Directorships:
Ms. Shikha Sharma is an Independent Director of Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited, Tech Mahindra Limited, Tata Consumer Products
Limited, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Limited, Mahindra Electric
Automobile Limited and Non-Executive and Non-Independent
Director of Piramal Enterprises Limited. Attendance at Board Meetings:
During the year 1st April, to 31st March, , Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Ms. Sharma had
attended Meetings. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Remuneration: on a basic salary of Rs. ,, per month in the scale of
Rs. ,, to Rs. ,, per month, and as the Managing
Director of the Company designated as “Managing Director
and Chief Executive Officer” with effect from 2nd April, to
31st March, (both days inclusive), on a basic salary in the
scale of Rs. ,, to Rs. ,, per month. Ms. Sharma would be entitled to sitting fees for attending the
Meetings of the Board of Directors and Committees thereof. In
addition, she would be entitled to commission as determined each
year by the Board of Directors within the limits approved by the
Members of the Company for the Non-Executive Directors of the
Company. Subsequently, the Members of the Company at the 77th Annual
General Meeting held on 4th August, , approved revision in
the remuneration of Dr. Anish Shah by increasing the scale of
basic salary as Rs. ,, to Rs. ,, per month with
effect from 1st August, upto the remainder period of the
tenure of his appointment i.e. 31st March, and by increasing
the Performance Pay which is based on his performance and
performance of the Company to an amount not exceeding %
of the Annual Basic Salary from the Financial Year - to
Financial Year -. The sitting fees paid to Ms. Sharma during the Financial Year
- were Rs. lakhs.
The commission payable to her for the Financial Year -
is Rs. lakhs.
Other information:
Mr. Haigreve Khaitan and Ms. Shikha Sharma do not hold any
Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the Company.
The GNRC has identified certain skills and capabilities required
by the Directors of the Company. The skill sets possessed by
Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma are aligned to those identified by
GNRC and complete details of the same are provided in the
Corporate Governance Section of the Annual Report of the
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, . The impressive performance of the Company under Dr. Shah’s
leadership reflects a cohesive strategy, innovative thinking, and
effective execution. His vision and guidance have undoubtedly
played a crucial role in steering the Company towards
success amidst ever-changing market dynamics. Basis this, the
Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”)
and the Board of Directors at their meetings held on 15th May, and 16th May, respectively, have recommended the
re-appointment of Dr. Shah (DIN: ) as the Managing
Director & Chief Executive Officer of the Company designated
as “Group CEO and Managing Director” for a further period
of years i.e. from 1st April, to 31st March, on the
terms and conditions including remuneration, as contained in this
explanatory statement. Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma are not disqualified from being
appointed as Directors in terms of section of the Act and
have given their consent to act as Directors. The Company has
received declarations from Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma stating
that they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed
under sub-section () of section of the Act and the Listing
Regulations. Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma are not debarred from
holding office of Directors pursuant to any Order issued by the
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any other
authority. The key factors considered by the GNRC and Board about
Dr. Shah while recommending his re-appointment including the
terms and conditions of his remuneration are given below : In the opinion of the Board, Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma, fulfil the
conditions for appointment as Independent Directors as specified
in the Act and the Listing Regulations and are independent of
the management. •	Bringing in investment partners into new businesses and
making the Company leaner and more focused on its core
businesses. The Board is of the view that the knowledge and experience
of Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma will be of immense benefit and
value to the Company and, therefore, recommends their reappointment to the Members. •	Formulation of a plan with focus on financial discipline to
create a strong value proposition with an ability to meet
certain financial milestones that provide a right set of return
to investors. A copy of the draft letter of appointment of Mr. Haigreve Khaitan
and Ms. Shikha Sharma setting out terms and conditions of their
appointment are available for inspection by the Members in
electronic form as per the instructions provided in Note No. of this Notice. •	Success in maintaining and enhancing a purpose-driven
culture, being a tech leader in each industry in which the
Company is operating and creating value by building scale
in each business.
•	Played a pivotal role as the architect behind a resilient talent
and leadership succession framework, diligently nurturing
and grooming individuals for key leadership positions
within the Company. His efforts have fostered a culture of
meritocracy, where advancement is based on talent and
performance, driving the organization towards excellence.
Under his guidance, robust performance management
processes have been instilled, emphasizing accountability
and ensuring that decisions are made in the best interest
of the Company's both short-term objectives and long-term
sustainability. Save and except Mr. Khaitan and Ms. Sharma themselves, and
their relatives to the extent of their shareholding interest, if any,
in the Company, none of the other Directors, Key Managerial
Personnel (“KMP“) of the Company and their relatives are, in
any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the
Resolution set out at Item Nos. & of the Notice. Mr. Khaitan
and Ms. Sharma are neither inter-se related to each other nor
related to any other Director / KMP of the Company.
The Board recommends the Special Resolutions set out at Item
Nos. & of the Notice for approval of the Members. •	Cultivated a culture of ownership, agility, integrity, and
humility, setting a tone that resonates throughout the
organization. By championing these values, he has not only
shaped the Company's ethos but has also contributed to
its resilience and adaptability in the face of challenges. His
visionary leadership has been instrumental in aligning the
Company's objectives with its core values, thereby driving
sustained growth and success. ITEM NO. :
Proposal:
The Shareholders of the Company had at the 74th Annual General
Meeting held on 7th August, appointed Dr. Anish Shah as
a Whole-time Director designated as “Deputy Managing Director
and Group Chief Financial Officer” of the Company with effect
from 1st April, till 1st April, (both days inclusive), •	Infused the Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
initiatives of the Company with a strategic focus and
unwavering energy. His commitment to sustainability and
responsible corporate practices is evident through his
active involvement on the CSR Committee of directors and
his leadership role in spearheading the Group Sustainability
Council. By championing ESG principles, he is instrumental
in driving the Company towards sustainable growth while
mitigating risks and enhancing resilience. His dedication to
ESG initiatives underscores the Company's commitment to
making a positive impact on the world while simultaneously
securing its own future success. Remuneration: •	The Company stands as a beacon of ethical business
practices and exemplary governance, earning recognition
from leading rating agencies for its steadfast commitment
to integrity and transparency. Throughout the fiscal year
-, the Company's dedication to upholding the highest
standards of corporate governance propelled it into the
prestigious 'Leadership' category on the Indian Corporate
Governance Scorecard . This accolade, developed jointly
by BSE Limited, the International Finance Corporation, and
IiAS, signifies M&M’s position at the forefront of corporate
governance excellence in India. Members are requested to note that % of the Performance
Pay annually payable to Dr. Anish Shah, is based on the Group
Corporate Office Scorecard comprising of Consolidated Sector
Balance Scorecards, Return on Equity, Earnings Per Share, MCARES,
Group Level ESG Performance Index and such other parameters as
may be decided by the Company from time to time.
ESG Performance Index has the following parameters:
• Greening ourselves • Decarbonizing Our Industry • Nanhi Kali • Women Empowerment • Diversity & Inclusion • Governance • Global ESG leadership Pursuant to sections , , , and all other applicable
provisions of the Act and the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, and the
Listing Regulations [including any statutory modification(s) or
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] read with
Schedule V of the Act, the proposal for re-appointment and
remuneration payable to Dr. Shah is now being placed before the
Members at the Annual General Meeting for their approval by
way of Special Resolution. In light of the factors discussed, it becomes imperative to
prioritize the continuity and stability of our current leadership. By
doing so, the best interests of the Company and its stakeholders
are effectively safeguarded. Maintaining a steady hand at the
helm ensures consistency in strategic direction and operational
execution, which in turn fosters confidence and trust among
stakeholders of the Company. The following additional information as required by Schedule V to
the Companies Act, is given below:
I. Considering the above and in accordance with the provisions of
Sections , , , , Schedule V and other applicable
provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, (“the Act”)
read with the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of
Managerial Personnel) Rules, and Securities and Exchange
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, (“the Listing Regulations”) (including any
statutory modification(s) and/or re-enactment(s) thereof for
the time being in force), and the Articles of Association of the
Company, the Board of Directors, based on the recommendation
of the GNRC and subject to the approval of the Members,
approved the re–appointment of Dr. Anish Shah as the Managing
Director & CEO of the Company designated as “Group CEO and
Managing Director” for a period of (five) years commencing
from 1st April, to 31st March, and the remuneration
payable to him. General Information:
(i) Nature of Industry: The Company is, inter alia, in the business of
manufacture of different range of automotive vehicles,
agricultural tractors, implements, industrial engines,
etc.
(ii)	
Date or expected date of commencement of
commercial production: The Company was incorporated on 2nd October, and started assembly of jeep type vehicles in the year
.
(iii) In case of new companies, expected date of
commencement of activities as per project
approved by financial institutions appearing in the
prospectus: For details pertaining to brief resume of Dr. Shah, age, qualification
and nature of his expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure
of relationships between directors inter-se, names of listed
entities and other companies in which he holds directorships and
memberships of Board Committees, shareholding in the Company,
the number of Meetings of the Board attended during the year,
along with disclosure pertaining to his resignation from listed
entities in the past three years, as stipulated under the Listing
Regulations and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings issued
by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, please refer to
Additional Information provided for Item No. of this Notice and
the Corporate Governance Report forming part of the Annual
Report. Not Applicable.
(iv)	Financial performance based on given indicators –
as per audited financial results for the year ended
31st March, :
Particulars
Gross Turnover & Income
Net Profit as per Statement of Profit &
Loss (After Tax)
Computation of Net Profit in accordance
with Section of the Companies Act, The Explanatory Statement may be considered as a written
Memorandum setting out terms, conditions and limits of
remuneration of Dr. Anish Shah as Managing Director and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company (from 1st April, to
31st March, ) in terms of section of the Act. Net Worth
(v) ,. ,. Foreign investments or collaborators, if any: Not Applicable. Rs. in crores
,,.
,. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED II. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Information about the appointee: III. (i)	
Background details: Refer profile Section of the
additional information of Item No. of this Notice. ITEM NO. (i) Proposal Reasons of loss or inadequate profits: Not applicable, as the Company has posted a net profit
after tax of Rs. ,. crores during the year ended
31st March, . (ii)	
Past remuneration during the financial year ended
31st March, : Rs. ,. lakhs
(iii)	
Recognition or awards: Refer profile Section of the
additional information of Item No. of this Notice.
(iv) J
 ob Profile and his suitability: Refer proposal
Section stated above.
(v) Other Information: (ii) teps taken or
S
improvement and proposed to be taken for (iii)  xpected increase in productivity and profits in
E
measurable terms: Not applicable as the Company has adequate profits. Remuneration proposed: IV.	Disclosures: 
Scale of Salary: Basic Salary in the scale of
Rs. ,, to Rs. ,,, per month. The information and disclosures of the remuneration package
of all Directors for FY - have been mentioned in the
Corporate Governance Report forming part of the Annual
Report under the Heading “Remuneration to Directors” as
per the requirements of Section II of Part II of Schedule V
of the Act. 
Perquisites and Performance Pay: As stated in
Resolution No. . 
Dr. Shah is also entitled to grant of Stock Options,
during his re-appointment, as may be decided by
the GNRC from time to time, not exceeding .%
of the total number of equity shares in the paid up
share capital of the Company during his tenure of
re-appointment. 
Considering that the re-appointment of Dr. Shah as a
Managing Director and CEO is effective from 1st April, ,
the information and disclosures of the revised remuneration
package of Dr. Shah will be provided in the Corporate
Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report(s)
from FY - onwards, as applicable. Dr. Shah has not
received any remuneration or commission from any of the
subsidiaries of the Company. The number of Stock Options granted and outstanding
as on st March, , are ,,, of which ,
Options (.%) have vested and are unexercised
and the balance ,, Options (.%) are yet
to vest.  r. Shah satisfies all the conditions set out in Part-I of Schedule
D
V to the Act as also conditions set out under sub-section of
section of the Act for being eligible for his re-appointment.
Dr. Shah is not disqualified from being appointed as a Director
in terms of section of the Act and has given his consent to
act as a Director. Dr. Shah is not debarred from holding the office
of Director pursuant to any Order issued by the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (“SEBI“) or any other authority and has
given all the necessary declarations and confirmation including his
consent to be re-appointed as a Managing Director & CEO of the
Company. It is proposed to authorise the Board (which term shall
be deemed to include any duly authorised Committee
thereof, for the time being exercising the powers
conferred on the Board by this Resolution) to revise
the basic salary payable to Dr. Shah, within the
above-mentioned scale of salary and decide on the
performance pay within % of the Annual Basic
Salary as mentioned above. Notice period applicable
to a Managing Director of the Company is six months.
There is no separate provision for payment of
Severance Fees.  urther, the Company has received a notice from a Member under
F
Section of the Act proposing the re–appointment of Dr. Anish
Shah as the Managing Director & CEO. (vi) C
 omparative remuneration profile with respect
to industry, size of the company, profile of the
position and person (in case of expatriates the
relevant details would be with respect to the
country of his origin):  e Board is of the view that Dr. Shah’s knowledge and experience
Th
will be of immense benefit and value to the Company and pursuant
to the recommendation of GNRC, recommends his appointment to
the Members.

Dr.
Shah possesses the core skills/expertise/competencies
identified in the Company’s business and sectors for it to function
effectively. Details of the skills possessed by him forms part of the
Corporate Governance Report. Taking into consideration the size of the Company, the
profile of Dr. Shah, the responsibilities shouldered by
him, growth in turnover and profits of the Company and
the industry benchmarks, the remuneration proposed
to be paid is commensurate with the remuneration
packages paid to similar senior level counterpart(s) in
other companies.  e Articles of Association of the Company are available
Th
for inspection by the Members in electronic form as per the
instructions provided in the Note No. of this Notice.
 ave and except Dr. Shah, and his relatives to the extent of their
S
shareholding interest, if any, in the Company, none of the other
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“) of the Company and
their relatives are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially
or otherwise, in the Resolution set out at Item No. of the
Notice. Dr. Shah is not related to any other Director/ KMP of the
Company. (vii) P
 ecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with
the Company, or relationship with the managerial
personnel, if any: Besides the remuneration proposed to be paid to him,
Dr. Shah does not have any other pecuniary relationship
with the Company or relationship with the managerial
personnel. 
The
Board recommends the Special Resolution at Item No. of
the Notice for approval of the Members. •	Intuitive understanding of consumer psychology has
allowed the Company to develop tailored solutions
that address genuine pain points and fulfill unmet
needs, thereby fostering strong customer loyalty and
satisfaction. His astute grasp of market dynamics has
empowered the Company to proactively adapt to changing
conditions, seize emerging opportunities, and mitigate
potential risks. The Shareholders of the Company had at the 74th Annual General
Meeting held on 7th August, appointed Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar
as a Whole-time Director designated as “Executive Director
(Automotive and Farm Sectors)” of the Company for a period of years with effect from 1st April, to 31st March, (both
days inclusive) on a basic salary of Rs. ,, per month in
the scale of Rs. ,, to Rs. ,, per month. •	
Instrumental in the launch of successful products,
establishing a new corporate brand identity and restructuring
the organisation to remain nimble and agile to tackle future
disruptions in the industry. Subsequently, the Members of the Company at the 77th Annual
General Meeting held on 4th August, , approved revision in
the remuneration of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar by increasing the scale
of basic salary as Rs. ,, to Rs. ,, per month with
effect from 1st August, upto the remainder period of the
tenure of his appointment i.e. 31st March, and by increasing
the Performance Pay which is based on his performance and
performance of the Company to an amount not exceeding %
of the Annual Basic Salary from the Financial Year - to
Financial Year -. •	Achieved a significant milestone by securing a global sourcing
arrangement with the Volkswagen Group. This has helped
the Company not only to forge a strategic partnership but
also validate the Company's reputation for excellence and
open up new avenues for collaboration and growth in the
global market.
•	Successfully onboarded an investor who is aligned with the
Company’s EV vision, which has helped the Company not
only to gain financial support but also strategic guidance
and expertise to accelerate its EV initiatives. Mr. Jejurikar has been recognised for scripting the successful
turnaround of the Mahindra Automotive business leading
to gaining revenue market leadership and charting the
ambitious future-ready EV roadmap. He has made significant
contribution in redefining the Mahindra Brand, script a dynamic
sales turnaround and develop an EV plan designed to futureproof growth of the Company. Basis this, the Governance,
Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“GNRC”) and the
Board of Directors at their meetings held on 15th May, and 16th May, respectively have recommended the reappointment of Mr. Jejurikar (DIN: ) as the Whole-time
Director designated as “Executive Director and CEO (Auto and
Farm Sector)” of the Company with effect from 1st April, to
24th June, (both days inclusive) on the terms and conditions
including remuneration, as contained in this explanatory
statement. In accordance with the provisions of Sections , , ,
, Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if any, of
the Companies Act, (“the Act”) read with the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
Rules, and Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, (“the Listing Regulations”) (including any statutory
modification(s) and/or re‑enactment(s) thereof for the time
being in force), and the Articles of Association of the Company,
the Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of the
GNRC and subject to the approval of the Members, approved
the re‑appointment of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as Whole‑time
Director designated as “Executive Director and CEO (Auto and
Farm Sector)” commencing from 1st April, to 24th June, (both days inclusive) and the remuneration payable to him. The key factors considered by the GNRC and Board about
Mr. Jejurikar while recommending his re-appointment including
the terms and conditions of his remuneration are given below: Brief resume of Mr. Jejurikar, age, qualification, nature of his
expertise in specific functional areas, disclosure of relationships
between directors inter-se, names of listed entities and other
companies in which he holds directorships and memberships/
chairmanships of Board Committees, shareholding in the
Company, the number of Meetings of the Board attended during
the year, along with disclosure pertaining to his resignation from
listed entities in the past three years, as stipulated under the
Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India are stated
herein, and are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report
forming part of the Annual Report. •	
Orchestrated a remarkable turnaround for the Company
amidst intense competition, guiding it from a position of
challenge to one of prominence. Through strategic vision
and decisive action, he navigated the Company through
turbulent waters, transforming adversity into opportunity.
By implementing innovative strategies and rallying the team
behind a shared vision, he propelled the Company to seize
the mantle of revenue leadership, earning it widespread
recognition and respect within the industry.
•	
Instilled a culture of agility and adaptability, enabling
the organization to swiftly respond to market dynamics
and outmaneuver competitors. Strategic initiatives
implemented not only stabilized the Company's position but
also positioned it for sustained growth and success in the
long term. Profile:
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar has completed years of age.
Mr. Jejurikar has diverse experience across Packaged Goods,
Advertising, Media, Automotive and Farm Equipment. He joined
Mahindra in as Vice President – Marketing for Automotive
Sector. In , he was appointed as Executive Vice President
– Sales & Marketing and in , he was given additional
responsibility as the Managing Director of Mahindra Renault in
India. In , he became Chief of Operations of the Automotive
Sector and when Automotive & Farm Equipment Sector (AFS)
was formed in , he was appointed as Chief Executive for the
Automotive Division and Member of the Group Executive Board. •	Ability to intuitively understand the needs and preferences
of consumers, as well as accurately anticipated market
dynamics, have emerged as pivotal differentiators for the
Company. By adeptly "reading" the consumer's mind, he
has helped gain invaluable insights into evolving trends,
preferences, and behaviors, enabling the Company to stay
ahead of the curve and deliver products and services that
resonate deeply with customers. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED In , Mr. Jejurikar joined the Farm Equipment Sector as
Chief Executive – Tractor & Farm Mechanisation and became the
Sector President in . Mr. Jejurikar has not resigned as a Director from any listed entity
in the past three years. An MBA from S. P. Jain Institute of Management, Mr. Jejurikar
attended the Advanced Management Program at The Wharton
School, University of Pennsylvania and was awarded the British
Chevening Scholarship to study at the Manchester Business
School, UK.
Mr. Jejurikar serves on the Governing Council of S. P. Jain
Institute of Management and Research. He was a Member of
the Executive Committee of the Society of Indian Automobile
Manufacturers (SIAM) during the period -. He
has served as the President of the Tractor Manufacturers
Association (TMA) in India and has represented TMA as its
President on the CII (The Confederation of Indian Industry)
National Council in & . He has also been a Member
of the CII National Council on Agriculture. As a Member of the CII
National Committee on IT/ITeS, he Co-chaired the Working Group
for Agriculture. Mahindra &
Mahindra Limited Risk Management
Committee Member . Swaraj Engines
Limited Nomination and
Remuneration Committee Member . Classic Legends
Private Limited Nomination and
Remuneration Committee Chairman . Mahindra Electric
Automobile
Limited Audit Committee Member Risk Committee Member Environmental, Social
& Governance Matters
Committee Member Nomination & Remuneration
Committee Member . Mahindra Last
Mile Mobility
Limited Gross Turnover & Income ,,. During the year 1st April, to 31st March, , Board
Meetings of the Company were held, and Mr. Jejurikar had
attended all the Meetings. Net Profit as per Statement of Profit &
Loss (After Tax) ,. Computation of Net Profit in accordance with
Section of the Companies Act, ,. Net Worth ,. Members are requested to note that % of the Performance Pay
annually payable to Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar, is based on the Business
Scorecard comprising of Consolidated Revenue, Consolidated
Profit Before Tax, Consolidated Free Cash Flow, Return on Capital
Employed, MCARES, MCAPs, ESG Performance Index and such
other parameters as may be decided by the Company from time
to time. Committee positions: . Attendance at Board Meetings: Remuneration: Mr. Jejurikar is the Chairman of Swaraj Engines Limited,
Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Limited, Mahindra Two Wheelers
Europe Holdings S.a.r.l., Mahindra USA Inc., Mitsubishi Mahindra
Agricultural Machinery Co. Ltd. and Automobili Pininfarina
GmbH. He is Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer
(Auto and Farm Sector) of Mahindra & Mahindra Limited and
Director of Classic Legends Private Limited and Mahindra Electric
Automobile Limited. He is also an Independent Director of Aliaxis
SA, Belgium. Position
Held Rs. in crores The Explanatory Statement may be considered as a written
Memorandum setting out terms, conditions and limits of remuneration
of Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar in terms of section of the Act. Directorships: Name of the Committee(s) Particulars Mr. Jejurikar holds ,, Ordinary (Equity) Shares in the
Company. He has been conferred with the prestigious ‘Autocar Person of
the Year - ’ award. The award recognizes individuals who
have contributed significantly to their company and the industry.
He was recognised for scripting the successful turnaround of the
Mahindra Automotive business leading to gaining revenue market
leadership and charting the ambitious future-ready EV roadmap.
He was also honoured by AsiaOne magazine as the “Global Indian
of the Year -”. Sr. Name of the
No. Company (iv) F
 inancial performance based on given indicators –
as per audited financial results for the year ended
31st March, : Resignation as a Director from Listed Entities in the past
three years: II. Foreign investments or collaborators, if any: (i)	
Background details: Refer Profile Section as stated
above (v)	Remuneration proposed: 
Scale of Salary: Basic Salary in the scale of
Rs. ,, to Rs. ,, per month. •	Reduction in Scope emissions (Supply Chain) (Auto & Farm
Sector) 
Perquisites and Performance Pay: As stated in
Resolution No. . Pursuant to sections , , , and all other applicable
provisions of the Act and the Companies (Appointment and
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, and the
Listing Regulations [including any statutory modification(s) or
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force] read with
Schedule V of the Act, the proposal for re-appointment and
remuneration payable to Mr. Jejurikar is now being placed before
the Members at the Annual General Meeting for their approval by
way of Special Resolution. Mr. Jejurikar is also entitled to grant of Stock Options
as may be decided by the GNRC, from time to time not
exceeding .% of the total number of equity shares
in the paid up share capital of the Company during his
tenure of re-appointment. General Information:
(i) Nature of Industry: The Company is, inter alia, in the business of manufacture
of different range of automotive vehicles, agricultural
tractors, implements, industrial engines, etc.
(ii) ate or expected date of commencement of
D
commercial production: The Company was incorporated on October, and
started assembly of jeep type vehicles in the year .
nd (iii) In case of new companies, expected date of
commencement of activities as per project approved
by financial institutions appearing in the prospectus: Not Applicable. IV. teps taken or
S
improvement and proposed to be taken for (iii)  xpected increase in productivity and profits in
E
measurable terms: Disclosures: The information and disclosures of the remuneration
package of all Directors for FY - have been
mentioned in the Corporate Governance Report
forming part of the Annual Report under the Heading
“Remuneration to Directors” as per the requirements of
Section II of Part II of Schedule V of the Act.  ecognition or awards: Refer Profile Section stated
R
above. •	Reduction in Scope emissions (Product in Use) (Auto &
Farm Sector) (ii) Not applicable as the Company has adequate profits. (ii)	
Past remuneration during the financial year ended
31st March, : Rs. ,. Lakhs •	Reduction in Scope + emissions (Auto & Farm Sector) Reasons of loss or inadequate profits: Not applicable, as the Company has posted a net profit
after tax of Rs. ,. crores during the year ended
31st March, . Information about the appointee: (iii) Other Information:
(i) Not Applicable. (iv)	Job Profile and his suitability: Refer proposal
Section stated above. I. 
Besides the remuneration proposed to be paid to
him, Mr. Jejurikar does not have any other pecuniary
relationship with the Company or relationship with the
managerial personnel.
III. ESG Performance Index has the following parameters: The following additional information as required by Schedule V to
the Companies Act, is given below: (v) (vii)	Pecuniary relationship directly or indirectly with
the Company, or relationship with the managerial
personnel, if any: Considering that the re-appointment of Mr. Jejurikar as an
Executive Director is effective from st April, , the
information and disclosures of the revised remuneration
package of Mr. Jejurikar will be provided in the Corporate
Governance Report forming part of the Annual Report(s)
from FY - onwards, as applicable. Mr. Jejurikar has
not received any remuneration or commission from any of
the subsidiaries of the Company.
Mr. Jejurikar satisfies all the conditions set out in Part-I
of Schedule V to the Act as also conditions set out under
sub-section of section of the Act for being eligible for
his appointment. Mr. Jejurikar is not disqualified from being
re‑appointed as a Director in terms of section of the Act
and has given his consent to act as a Director. Mr. Jejurikar is
not debarred from holding the office of Director pursuant to
any Order issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India
(“SEBI“) or any other authority and has given all the necessary
declarations and confirmation including his consent to be
re-appointed as a Whole-time Director designated as “Executive
Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)”. The number of Stock Options granted and outstanding
as on 31st March, , are ,, all of which are
unvested. It is proposed to authorise the Board (which term shall
be deemed to include any duly authorised Committee
thereof, for the time being exercising the powers
conferred on the Board by this Resolution) to revise
the basic salary payable to Mr. Jejurikar, within the
above-mentioned scale of salary and decide on the
performance pay within % of the Annual Basic
Salary as mentioned above. Notice period applicable
to a Whole-time Director of the Company is six
months. There is no separate provision for payment of
Severance Fees. Further, the Company has received a notice from a Member under
Section of the Act proposing the re‑appointment of
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar as a Whole-time Director designated as
“Executive Director & CEO (Auto and Farm Sector)”.
The Board is of the view that Mr. Jejurikar’s knowledge and
experience will be of immense benefit and value to the Company
and pursuant to the recommendation of the GNRC, recommends
his re-appointment to the Members. (vi) C
 omparative remuneration profile with respect to
industry, size of the company, profile of the position
and person (in case of expatriates the relevant details
would be with respect to the country of his origin):  r. Jejurikar possesses the core skills/expertise/competencies
M
identified in the Company’s business and sectors for it to function
effectively. Details of the skills possessed by him forms part of
the Corporate Governance Report. Taking into consideration the size of the Company, the
profile of Mr. Jejurikar, the responsibilities shouldered
by him, growth in turnover and profits and the industry
benchmarks, the remuneration proposed to be paid is
commensurate with the remuneration packages paid to
similar senior level counterpart(s) in other companies.  e Articles of Association of the Company are available
Th
for inspection by the Members in electronic form as per the
instructions provided in the Note No. of this Notice. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Save and except Mr. Jejurikar, and his relatives to the
extent of their shareholding interest, if any, in the Company,
none of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel (“KMP“)
of the Company and their relatives are, in any way, concerned
or interested, financially or otherwise, in the Resolution set out
at Item No. of the Notice. Mr. Jejurikar is not related to any
other Director/ KMP of the Company. The Members of the Company at the Seventy-Seventh Annual
General Meeting of the Company held on 4th August, (“77th AGM”), had approved Material Related Party Transactions
of the Company with Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited
(“MEAL”), with the monetary limit not exceeding .% of the
annual consolidated turnover of the Company or Rs. , Crores
whichever is higher, per annum for each of the financial years
(FY) from FY - to FY - i.e., five financial years.
However, the estimated value of the contract(s)/ arrangement(s)/
agreement(s)/ transaction(s) of the Company with MEAL is
anticipated to exceed the aforesaid monetary limit approved by
the Members at the 77th AGM.  e Board recommends the Special Resolution at Item No. of
Th
the Notice for approval of the Members.
ITEM NO. & :
As per Regulation of Securities and Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, ("Listing Regulations"), prior approval of the shareholders
is required for Related Party Transactions exceeding the
threshold of lower of Rs. , crores (Rupees one thousand
crores) or % (ten per cent) of the annual consolidated
turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial
statements of the listed entity. The approval is required even if
the transactions are in the ordinary course of business and at
an arm’s length basis. The transactions between the Company and MEAL for the
period commencing from 1st April, upto the date of the
78th Annual General Meeting would be within the monetary limit
earlier approved by the Members at the 77th AGM.
Further, the Members are requested to note that the related
party transactions pertaining to subsidiaries of the Company
mentioned in Item No. below, for the period commencing
from st April, upto the date of the 78th Annual General
Meeting would be within the threshold prescribed under
Regulation () of the Listing Regulations i.e. Rs. , crores. Under the Listing Regulations, in addition to the approval
and reporting for transactions by the Company with its own
Related Party(ies), the scope extends to transactions by
the Company with Related Party(ies) of any subsidiary(ies)
of the Company or transactions by a subsidiary(ies) of the
Company with its own Related Party(ies) or Related Party(ies)
of the Company or Related Party(ies) of any subsidiary(ies) of
the Company. Upon receipt of approval(s) for related party transactions as
set out in Item nos. & , the Company shall additionally
ensure that the transactions from st April, upto the date
of th Annual General Meeting would be within the monetary
limit as set out in Item Nos. & respectively. Given the nature of the Company’s presence in multiple
businesses, the Company works closely with its subsidiaries,
joint ventures and associates to achieve its business objectives
and enters into various operational transactions with its related
parties, from time to time, in the ordinary course of business and
on an arm’s length basis. The Members may please note that the Company and its
subsidiaries and associates have been undertaking such
transactions of similar nature with related parties in the past
financial years, in the ordinary course of business and on arm's
length after obtaining requisite approvals, including from the
Audit Committee of the Company/subsidiaries/ associates, as per
the requirements of the applicable law. Amongst the transactions that the Company enters into with
its related parties, the estimated value of the contract(s)/
arrangement(s)/ agreement(s)/ transaction(s) of the Company
with the Related Party mentioned below and also the
‘Related Party Transactions’ under Regulation () (zc) of
the Listing Regulations pertaining to Subsidiaries of the
Company, may exceed the threshold of Material Related Party
Transactions within the meaning of Regulation () of the
Listing Regulations i.e. Rs. , crores (Rupees one thousand
crores) being the lower of Rs. , crores (Rupees one thousand
crores) or % (ten per cent) of the annual consolidated turnover
of the Company as per the last audited financial statements of
the Company.
) The maximum annual value of the proposed transactions with
the related parties is estimated based on the Company’s current
transactions with them and future business projections.
Considering the quantum of transactions, approval of the
Members is sought pursuant to Regulation of the Listing
Regulations read with SEBI Master Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
PoD2/CIR/P// dated 11th July, (“SEBI Master
Circular”), for the following specific Material Related Party
Transactions, details of which are mentioned herein in accordance
with the SEBI Master Circular. For Item No.  aterial Modification in earlier approved Material Related Party Transactions between the Company and Mahindra
M
Electric Automobile Limited Sr. Name of the Related Party
No. . Mahindra Electric Automobile
Limited ("MEAL”) . . Type, Nature, material terms and particulars of the contract or arrangements Monetary
Value
Rs. in crores a)	Purchase / Sale of any goods and material including passenger / commercial vehicles, electric vehicles,
electric kits, assemblies, components, castings, forgings, sheet metal, engines, engine components,
tractors, implements, four-wheelers, spares, accessories and other related components/parts; , b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; , c)	Manufacturing services, Product development services, Shared services & other services including
sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud,
IOT and digital engineering, digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, Licensing of technology /
intellectual property rights, receipt of royalty / brand usage, manpower, management and management
support services, owned / third party services, reimbursements and allied transactions; and , d)	Purchase / sale / transfer / exchange / lease of business assets including property, plant and equipment,
Intangible assets, transfer of technology to meet the business objectives and requirements. , Any advance paid or received for the contract or arrangement, if any
Based on the nature of transaction, advance for part or full amount of the transaction/ arrangement could be paid/ received in the ordinary
course of business. . Tenure
The shareholders’ approval will be valid for the period commencing from the Seventy Eighth Annual General Meeting upto the date of Seventy
Ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in the year . . Justification for why the proposed transaction is in the interest of the Company and Rationale for revision of monetary limit to
Rs. , crores
MEAL was incorporated on 25th October, to undertake the (Four) Wheel Passenger Electric Vehicles Business of the Company.
Earlier British International Investment Plc (“BII”), the UK’s Development Finance Institution and impact investor and the Company had
entered into a binding agreement to invest up to Rs. , crores each in MEAL. Till 31st March, , BII has invested Rs , crores in
MEAL in the form of compulsory convertible instruments and a nominal shareholding of equity shares of MEAL. Jongsong Investments
Pte Ltd (“Temasek”) had executed a binding agreement for investment of Rs. , crores into MEAL in the form of compulsory convertible
instruments, of which Rs. crores were invested till 31st March, . Both the investments are designed to significantly accelerate the
availability and adoption of electric vehicles in India and other markets served by the Company.
Further, the Company has approved an investment of Rs. , crores in MEAL to fund its EV journey over the next years. The Company and its
Auto Division expect to generate sufficient operating cash to satisfy all its capital investment needs and are not looking to raise additional capital.
The aforesaid investments would result in BII and Temasek having a shareholding in the range of .% to .% and .% to .%
respectively in MEAL and the shareholding of the Company in MEAL would accordingly get diluted.
The funds infused by the Company, BII and Temasek will be utilized by MEAL primarily to create and market a world-class Electric SUV
portfolio with advanced technologies.
In line with the Company’s commitment to becoming planet-positive by and its strategic vision to lead the electric vehicle (“EV”)
market, it is anticipated that % to % of its SUVs will be electric by . This ambitious target will be a key driver in propelling the
Company towards a leadership position in the EV SUV sector. The Company’s efforts will play a crucial role in the decarbonization of the
automotive industry, both in India and globally.
With the strong backing of BII and Temasek, coupled with the Company’s unwavering ambition, it is poised to build a globally desirable brand
that sets new standards in sustainability and innovation. Nature of relationship with the
Company including nature of its
concern or interest (financial or
otherwise) Monetary Value The Company will provide significant support to MEAL in terms of broader manufacturing capabilities, product development, design
organizations, sourcing services along with the ecosystem of suppliers, dealers, and financiers of the Company. Subsidiary Not exceeding Rs. , crores Besides the above, the Company benefits through operational synergies, cost optimisation, efficient working capital, assurance of product/
service quality, utilising the expertise within the group for manufacturing, sourcing, etc. thereby bringing efficiencies in the businesses,
providing enhanced level of user experience to the consumers of the Company to enable achieve growth objectives, access to and utilisation
of strong R&D and design capabilities. This would drive growth in subsidiary's business and will enable it to innovate, scale up and pursue
growth opportunities in a more focused manner. MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Upon incorporation of MEAL, the Company entered into an Asset Transfer Agreement with MEAL for transfer of certain identified assets
pertaining to the (Four) Wheel Passenger Electric Vehicles to MEAL. The transactions involving transfer of business assets, technology,
etc. with MEAL are in furtherance of the business, operational in nature, in line with the past transactions and will help ensure continuity
of business and as such, are in ordinary course of business. . Percentage of the Company’s annual consolidated Rs. , crores constitute .% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company.
turnover, for the immediately preceding financial * Turnover includes Revenue from Operations.
year, that is represented by the value of the proposed MEAL was incorporated on 25th October, and is yet to commence
transaction (and for a related party transaction operations, hence it has NIL Turnover for FY -.
involving a subsidiary, such percentage calculated
Note: The percentage above is based on the Company’s Consolidated Turnover /
on the basis of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on a
Subsidiary’s Standalone Turnover for the FY - and the actual percentage
standalone basis shall be additionally provided)
shall depend upon the turnover of the Company/ Subsidiary as the case may be
as per the last audited financial statements of the Company / Subsidiary during
the above referred period for which approval is being sought. . Transactions undertaken in previous Financial Years ended 31st March, and 31st March, Considering all of the above and the ambitious plans of the Group in the EV space, there would be a significant surge in the overall
transactions between the Company and MEAL.
. If the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity or
its subsidiary:
i.	details of the source of funds in connection with The financial assistance / investment would be from own funds / internal accruals
the proposed transaction;
of the Company. The Company would not be incurring indebtedness solely for
the purpose of providing financial assistance / making investment. Rs. in crores ii.	where any financial indebtedness is incurred to make Not applicable, since the Company would not be incurring financial indebtedness
or give loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or specially for giving financial assistance or making investments.
investments,
• nature of indebtedness; • cost of funds; and • tenure iii.	Applicable terms, including covenants, tenure, Investments by way of subscription, purchase or otherwise in securities / debt
interest rate and repayment schedule, whether instruments and / or providing of loans, advances, and guarantees in relation
secured or unsecured; if secured, the nature of to above mentioned subsidiary would be in accordance with the provisions of
security;
the Companies Act, . The interest charged will be in compliance with the
provisions of section of the Companies Act, .
The financial assistance in the form of loan / inter-corporate deposit, if any
provided, will be on an arm’s length basis considering the following:i)	The nature and tenor of loan/ICD,
ii)	The opportunity cost for the Company from investment in alternative options,
and
iii)	The cost of availing funds for the Company and for the related party.
iv.	The purpose for which the funds will be utilised by The funds shall be used for operational activities and other business requirements
the ultimate beneficiary of such funds pursuant to of MEAL and/or for making investment(s) in and/or providing financial assistance
the related party transaction
to any of its subsidiaries / associates / joint ventures, if any.
. Details of the Valuation Report or other external The related party transactions will be in line with the Company’s Policy on
party report (if any)
Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party Transactions. These transactions
are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business. The related
party transactions will be supported by the Valuation Report of an independent
valuer, wherever necessary.
Arms' Length Basis:
The Company ensures that the related party transactions are done on arms’
length basis which are established taking into account various factors including
comparable with unrelated parties or on cost plus reasonable margin basis or
market price basis, where available, or certified by any independent agency.
In case of inter corporate fund based/ non fund based transaction(s), the
interest charged will be in compliance with the provisions of section of the
Companies Act, . The reimbursements / recoveries would be basis actual
cost incurred. Compliance with arm’s length principles is ensured based on the
applicable transfer pricing regulations. FY23 Sr.
No. Name of the Company Nature of Transaction . Mahindra Electric Automobile
Limited Sale of property, plant & equipment and other intangible assets,
sale of goods, rendering of services, investments, other income,
reimbursements received, etc. FY24 ,. ,. The royalty received from MEAL for usage of ‘Mahindra’ Brand/ trade name was Rs. . lacs in FY24.
The royalty receivable from MEAL during the period from 1st April, upto the Seventy Ninth Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held in the year is expected to be around Rs. crores, which would be well below the permitted statutory
ceiling as prescribed under Regulation (1A) of Listing Regulations i.e. % of the annual consolidated turnover of the Company.
) For Item No. : Details of the Material Related Party Transactions pertaining to Subsidiaries of the Company:
Sr. Particulars
No.
. Name of the
Name of the
Related Party;
Subsidiary
Nature of
Mahindra Susten
relationship with
Private Limited
the Subsidiary,
("MSPL")
including nature
of its concern or
interest (financial
or otherwise); and
Monetary Value Disclosures
Name of the Related Party Monetary value Nature of Relationship Martial Solren Private Limited
("Martial") Not exceeding Rs. , Crores Gelos Solren Private Limited
(“GSPL”) Not exceeding Rs. , Crores Furies Solren Private Limited
(“FSPL”) Not exceeding Rs. , Crores Hazel Hybren Private Limited
(“HHPL”) Not exceeding Rs. , Crores MSPL is a subsidiary
of Mahindra Holdings Limited ("MHL").
MHL is whollyowned subsidiary
of the Company
and thus, MSPL is
a subsidiary of the
Company.
Martial, GSPL, FSPL,
HHPL, IHPL, LHPL,
JHPL, KHPL and
MHPL are wholly
owned subsidiaries
of MSPL which is a
subsidiary of MHL
and in turn of the
Company. Illuminate Hybren Private Limited Not exceeding Rs. , Crores
(“IHPL”)
Layer Hybren Private Limited
(“LHPL”) Not exceeding Rs. , Crores Jade Hybren Private Limited
(“JHPL”) Not exceeding Rs. , Crores Kyros Hybren Private Limited
(“KHPL”) Not exceeding Rs. , Crores Migos Hybren Private Limited
(“MHPL”) Not exceeding Rs. , Crores MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Type/Nature, material terms and particulars of the contract or arrangements
Monetary values
Rs. in crores Martial Solren Private Limited (“Martial”)
a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. Monetary values
Rs. in crores Gelos Solren Private Limited (“GSPL”) Monetary values
Rs. in crores Illuminate Hybren Private Limited (“IHPL”)
a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. Monetary values
Rs. in crores Jade Hybren Private Limited (“JHPL”) a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. Monetary values
Rs. in crores Furies Solren Private Limited (“FSPL”)
a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and , c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. Monetary values
Rs. in crores Hazel Hybren Private Limited (“HHPL”)
a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. Monetary values
Rs. in crores Kyros Hybren Private Limited (“KHPL”)
a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and
c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. Layer Hybren Private Limited (“LHPL”)
a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract;
b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD),
convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and
c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each
other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions. Monetary values
Rs. in crores MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED .
.
. . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Monetary values
Migos Hybren Private Limited (“MHPL”)
Rs. in crores
a) Availing/rendering of services under EPC Contract; b)	Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter-corporate deposits (ICD), convertible/ non-convertible instruments/ Guarantee/ security etc., in connection with loans provided
and Interest, commission and other related income / expenses; and
c)	Entering into lease arrangements, shared services and other services including sharing or usage of each other’s resources like employees, infrastructure including IT assets, cloud, IOT and digital engineering,
digital transformation, analytics, cyber security, manpower, management and management support
services, owned / third party services and reimbursements and allied transactions.
Any advance paid or received for
Based on the nature of transaction, advance for part or full amount of the transaction/
the contract or arrangement, if any arrangement could be paid / received in the ordinary course of business.
Tenure
The shareholders’ approval will be valid for the period commencing from the Seventy
Eighth Annual General Meeting upto the date of Seventy Ninth Annual General Meeting of
the Company to be held in the year .
Justification for why the proposed MSPL is Mahindra Group's renewable energy platform, which includes one of the leading
transaction is in the interest of the renewable engineering, procurement and construction ("EPC") businesses (capacity
Company
constructed of over . GWp over its tenure of +years), an independent power producer
("IPP") business with over . GWp of solar plants portfolio spread across several states in
India, and plans to have a significant solar development pipeline.
The IPP solar portfolio is spread across key states in India and is backed by long-term power
purchase agreements. Over % of assets are backed by central government or equivalent
entities and the remaining with distribution companies backed by state governments. This
portfolio has been sold to Sustainable Energy Infra Trust (“InvIT”), created under MSPL and
its shareholders’ sponsorship. MSPL has won new projects to create pipeline.
As part of the strategic plan to growth, the IPP business in MSPL (along with its shareholders) has
created a business plan to add over . GWP of Renewable Energy Assets over the next years.
The strategic direction would also be to sell such built assets after holding them for about or years post execution to the InvIT.
These Renewable Energy Assets will be housed in respective subsidiary companies or
Project SPVs (special purpose vehicles). In order to enable these subsidiary companies to
execute these projects, financial and technical support will have to be provided by MSPL.
The financial support will be in the form of promoter contributions, loans and providing
guarantees on behalf of these subsidiary companies. MSPL will also be entering into EPC
and other necessary agreements with these subsidiary companies.
The transactions as stated above are between MSPL and its nine wholly owned subsidiaries.
Keeping in mind the potential quantum of transactions between MSPL and these
subsidiaries as well as probability of future investment in these subsidiaries, it is proposed
to seek approval of the Members for Related Party Transactions entered/to be entered into
between MSPL and the aforementioned subsidiary companies of MSPL. iv) . The purpose for which the funds MSPL has infused / would infuse subordinate debt in the subsidiaries for construction of
will be utilised by the ultimate renewable power projects housed in the respective subsidiaries. This subordinate debt is a
beneficiary of such funds pursuant part of the overall equity contribution by MSPL in the projects.
to the related party transaction
Details of the Valuation or other The related party transactions will be in line with the Company’s Policy on Materiality of and
external party report (if any)
Dealing with Related Party Transactions. These transactions will be on an arm’s length basis
and in the ordinary course of business. The related party transactions will be supported by
the Valuation Report of an Independent valuer, wherever necessary.
Arms' Length Basis:
The Company ensures that the related party transactions are done on arms’ length basis
which are established taking into account various factors including comparable with
unrelated parties or on cost plus reasonable margin basis or market price basis, where
available, or certified by any independent agency. In case of inter corporate fund based/ non
fund based transaction(s), the interest charged will be in compliance with the provisions
of section of the Companies Act, . The reimbursements / recoveries would be
basis actual cost incurred. Compliance with arm’s length principles is ensured based on the
applicable transfer pricing regulations. . Percentage of the Company’s ) Rs. , crores constitute .% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company,
annual consolidated turnover, for ) Rs. , crores constitute .% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company,
the immediately preceding financial ) Rs. , crores constitute .% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company,
year, that is represented by the ) Rs. , crores constitute .% of the Consolidated Turnover* of the Company.
value of the proposed transaction
(and for a related party transaction
Name of the
Value of the proposed transaction p.a. as a % of the
involving
a
subsidiary,
such
Subsidiary^
annual turnover* of MSPL on standalone basis
percentage calculated on the basis
Martial
%
of the subsidiary’s annual turnover
GSPL
%
on a standalone basis shall be
FSPL
%
additionally provided)
HHPL
%
IHPL
%
JHPL
%
KHPL
%
LHPL
%
MHPL
%
* Turnover includes Revenue from Operations.
Note: The percentage above is based on the Company’s Consolidated Turnover / Subsidiary’s
Standalone Turnover for the FY -.
^ Martial, GSPL, FSPL, HHPL, IHPL, JHPL, KHPL, LHPL and MHPL are yet to commence
operations and have Nil Turnover for FY -. If the transaction relates to any loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given by the listed entity
or its subsidiary:
i) ii) iii) details of the source of funds in MSPL has infused/ would infuse subordinate debt in Martial, GSPL, FSPL, HHPL, IHPL,
connection with the proposed JHPL, KHPL, LHPL and MHPL (“subsidiaries”) for construction of renewable power projects
transaction;
housed in the respective subsidiaries. This subordinate debt is a part of the overall Equity
contribution by MSPL in the respective subsidiaries.
MSPL would be funding this subordinate debt partly through its internal accruals and partly
through Loan from the Company.
where any financial indebtedness •
MSPL has funded / would be funding the subordinate debt partly through its internal
is incurred to make or give loans,
accruals and partly through Loan from the Company;
intercorporate deposits, advances •
The loan from the Company is a combination of floating and fixed Rate, the current
or investments,
weighted average of loan is in the range of % per annum to % per annum;
•
nature of indebtedness;
•
Tenure of the loans from the Company varies from to years.
•
cost of funds; and
•
tenure
Applicable
terms,
including Subordinate loans already advanced/ to be advanced by MSPL to subsidiaries are unsecured
covenants, tenure, interest rate loans and are considered subordinate to existing or proposed bank debt. There is no fixed
and repayment schedule, whether tenure of these loans as repayment will depend on meeting of secured loan covenants
secured or unsecured; if secured, and approvals of Project secured lenders. The ROI to be charged on the loan will be
the nature of security;
between % to % per annum. . Transactions undertaken in previous Financial Year ended 31st March, and 31st March, Sr.
No. Name of the Company Nature of Transactions Rs. in crores
FY23 FY24 Martial Solren Private Limited
Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Inter(incorporated on 27th August, ) corporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest expenses . . Gelos Solren Private Limited
(incorporated on 14th June, ) Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided,
Interest expenses and availment of services NA . Furies Solren Private Limited
(incorporated on 14th June, ) Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest expenses NA . Hazel Hybren Private Limited
(incorporated on 2nd June, ) Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest expenses NA . MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Sr.
No. Name of the Company Illuminate Hybren Private Limited
(incorporated on th May, ) MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Nature of Transactions FY23 FY24 Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided and
Interest expenses NA . Jade Hybren Private Limited
(incorporated on th November,
) Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided NA Kyros Hybren Private Limited
(incorporated on th November,
) Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided NA Layer Hybren Private Limited
(incorporated on 2nd December,
) Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided Migos Hybren Private Limited
(incorporated on 15th December,
) Providing fund based and non-fund based support including equity/ debt/ Intercorporate deposits (ICD), Guarantee etc., in connection with loans provided NA NA . . . . The Company has in place a robust process for approval of Material Related Party Transactions and on dealing with Related Parties.
As per the process, necessary details for each of the Related Party Transactions as applicable along with the justification are
provided to the Audit Committee in terms of the Company's Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party Transactions
and as required under SEBI Circular(s). Further, a Certificate from the Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief
Financial Officer of the Company confirming that the Related Party Transactions are in the ordinary course of business of the
Company and on an arm’s length basis is also placed before the Audit Committee.
The Related Party Transactions placed for Members’ approval shall also be reviewed/ monitored on quarterly basis by the Audit
Committee of the Company as per Regulation of the Listing Regulations and section of the Companies Act, and shall
remain within the proposed amount(s) being placed before the Members.
Any subsequent material modifications in the proposed transactions, as defined by the Audit Committee as a part of the Company’s
Policy on Materiality of and Dealing with Related Party Transactions, shall be placed before the Members for approval, in terms of
Regulation () of the Listing Regulations. As per the amended Listing Regulations effective from st January, , all the Related
Party Transactions shall be approved only by those members of the audit committee, who are independent directors. Since the
Company’s Audit Committee comprises only of Independent Directors, the amendment to the Listing Regulations, requiring approval
of related party transactions only by those members of the Audit Committee who are Independent Directors of the Company, was
already institutionalised by the Company much before such amendment was made effective on st January, . Sr.
No. Company Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company holding Directorships in the
concerned Related Party(ies) Item No. . Mahindra Susten Private Limited Mr. Amarjyoti Barua – Non-Executive Director . Martial Solren Private Limited – . Gelos Solren Private Limited . Furies Solren Private Limited . Hazel Hybren Private Limited . Illuminate Hybren Private Limited . Jade Hybren Private Limited . Kyros Hybren Private Limited . Layer Hybren Private Limited . Migos Hybren Private Limited None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives are concerned or interested, financially or
otherwise, in the resolutions set out at Item Nos. and of the Notice.
The Board of Directors of the Company recommends the Material Related Party Transactions of the Company as set out in Item
Nos. and of the Notice for approval of the Members by way of Ordinary Resolutions.
By Order of the Board
NARAYAN SHANKAR
Company Secretary
ACS No. Registered Office:
Gateway Building, Apollo Bunder,
Mumbai – .
CIN e-mail
Website
Tel. :
:
:
: L65990MH1945PLC004558
investors@mahindra.com
https://www.mahindra.com
+ Mumbai, 16th May, The Related Party Transactions placed for Members’ approval are specific in nature and have been approved by the Audit Committee
and Board of Directors of the Company.
The Company will seek separate approval on an Annual Basis from the shareholders, in future, in case any omnibus approvals are
needed for Material Related Party Transactions.
None of the promoter/ promoter group entities are interested, directly or indirectly, in any of the proposed transactions. The
proposed transactions shall not, in any manner, be detrimental to the interest of minority shareholders and are in the best interest
of the Company and its Members.
The Members may please note that in terms of provisions of the Listing Regulations, none of the related party(ies) (whether such
related party(ies) are a party to the proposed transactions or not), shall vote to approve the Ordinary Resolutions at Item Nos. and of the Notice. Details of Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company holding Directorships in the concerned
Related Party(ies) are given below:
Sr.
No. Company Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company holding Directorships in the
concerned Related Party(ies) Item No. . Mahindra Electric Automobile Limited Dr. Anish Shah - Non-Executive Director
Mr. Rajesh Jejurikar – Non-Executive Director
Mr. Vikram Singh Mehta – Independent Director
Ms. Shikha Sharma – Independent Director MAHINDRA & MAHINDRA LIMITED Information at a glance
Sr.
No. Particulars Details . Day, Date and Time of AGM Wednesday, st July, , . P.M (IST) . Mode Video Conference (VC)/Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) . Participation through
Video‑Conferencing Members can login from : p.m. (IST) on the date of AGM at https://emeetings.kfintech.com . Helpline Number for VC
participation Phone No.: - or KFintech’s toll free No.: -- . Submission of Questions /
Queries Before AGM Questions/queries shall be submitted hours before the time fixed for AGM i.e. by
: p.m. (IST) on Monday, th July, , by any of the following processes:
•	Email to investors@mahindra.com mentioning name, demat account number/folio
number, registered email ID, mobile number, etc.
•	Members holding shares as on the cut-off date i.e. Wednesday, 24th July, , may
also visit https://emeetings.kfintech.com and click on “Post Your Queries” and post
queries/views/questions in the window provided, by mentioning name, demat account
number/folio number, email ID and mobile number.
Members can also post their questions during AGM through the “Ask A Question” tab which
is available in the VC/OAVM Facility as well as in the one way live webcast facility. . Speaker Registration Before
AGM Visit https://emeetings.kfintech.com and click on “Speaker Registration” during the period
from Monday, 22nd July, (: a.m. IST) upto Wednesday, 24th July, (: p.m. IST). . Recorded transcript Will be made available post AGM at https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/
regulatory-filings . Dividend for FY24
recommended by Board Rs. . (%) per Ordinary (Equity) Share of the face value of Rs. each . Dividend Book Closure dates Saturday, 6th July, to Wednesday, st July, (both days inclusive) . Dividend payment date After Wednesday, st July, . Information of tax on
Dividend for FY - https://www.mahindra.com/investor-relations/regulatory-filings . Cut-off date for e-voting Wednesday, 24th July, . Remote E-voting start time
and date Friday, 26th July, (: a.m. IST) . Remote E-voting end time
and date Tuesday, th July, (: p.m. IST) . Remote E-voting website
of Kfin https://evoting.kfintech.com . Name, address and contact
details of e-voting service
Provider and Registrar and
Transfer Agent KFin Technologies Limited (“KFintech”), Selenium, Tower B, Plot No. & , Gachibowli,
Financial District, Nanakramguda, Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana – Email Registration &
Contact Updation Process Demat shareholders:
Contact respective Depository Participants. . Contact detail: Phone No.: - or KFintech’s toll free No.: -- Physical Shareholders:
Send Form ISR- and other relevant forms to KFintech at Selenium, Tower-B, Plot No. &, Gachibowli, Financial District, Nanakramguda, Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Telangana
India – or at the email ID einward.ris@kfintech.com